http://ymi.today/2017/03/the-day-my-heart-stopped/

The Day My Heart Stopped

Author: by Contributor

Written By Michelle Lai, Singapore

In the second half of 2015, I was appointed cell group leader in my
university’s Christian Fellowship (CF). It was my first time serving
as cell group leader, so I took on the role excitedly.

Shortly into my new role, however, I developed a crush on one of my
cell group members; he was also a leader serving in the CF as well as
in church.

It started off innocently, with me seeking his advice on cell group
matters and spending time with him to learn how to plan Bible studies.
It was my first time doing many things and I really appreciated his
help.

But as the days went by, thoughts of him would creep into my mind as I
planned cell group meetings. I realized it was distracting me from
serving other group members. That’s when I knew I had to ask myself
some tough questions. Was I spending a disproportionate amount of time
with him at the expense of other members? Had I become too engrossed
in looking out for and listening to him during meetings? Was I giving
him priority over other members, like shifting our outings to another
day just because he couldn’t make it?

I have heard of cell group leaders dating their members, but I knew
that in my case, it was not the right time for me to consider a
relationship as I was also balancing other commitments like work and
school.

As I became more aware of my struggle, I became increasingly moody.
What do cell group leaders do when they have a crush on their members?
I decided to confide in one of my friends about this struggle.
Unfortunately, due to some misunderstanding, we fell out when I felt
that she was questioning my motive for serving and for doing things
the way I did as a leader. It made me furious and upset.

For days, I wrestled with these emotions—till it reached a point when
I felt numb. It was as if a plug was pulled from my heart; I felt
emptiness. And as my heart “stopped”, my mind took over. Without the
heart, the mind is a cold thing. I could do the things I needed to do,
but I found that I had dark thoughts. I formed negative thoughts about
others. I became calculative. Even though I continued to attend CF
sessions and do my quiet time, I felt far from God.

But the deliberate and conscious decision to keep reading God’s Word,
worshiping Him, and immersing myself in His community had an effect on
me. During a CF worship event one day, the worship leader sang the
song, “Divine Exchange” by Lara Martin. As I listened to the lyrics, I
felt convicted in my heart and mind to leave all my burdens at the
foot of the cross. As I listened to the lyrics, I felt convicted in my
heart and mind to leave all my burdens at the foot of the cross. I let
go of all the tiredness and numbness I had been feeling, and at that
moment, I was able to enjoy the presence of God. A sense of relief and
peace entered my heart and slowly, my emotions came back.

Over time, I got over my crush on my cell group member. He stopped
being a distraction and I no longer had to struggle between how I felt
and what I needed to do at every meeting. I also cleared the air with
the friend whom I confided in, and forgave her for hurting my
feelings.

Through this episode, I learned the importance of obeying and
worshiping God even when He seems to be far away or when I don’t feel
like it. Worship and love for God is not merely a feeling—it is a
deliberate and conscious choice we need to make on a daily basis. I am
glad I learned to lay all my thoughts and feelings at His feet instead
of struggling to fix them on my own.

