http://ymi.today/2017/07/my-antidote-to-panic-attacks-worship/

My Antidote to Panic Attacks: Worship

Author: by Contributor

Written by Rachel Moreland, USA

I’ll never forget the first time I had a panic attack. It was in my
second year of university and I was doing what any normal 19-year-old
American girl would do on a Thursday evening—buying a pint of Ben &
Jerry’s ice cream at the local supermarket.

It hit me as I was scanning the freezers. As a surge of adrenaline
rushed throughout my body, I had to stop and catch my breath. My
fingertips began to tingle. My palms and feet started to go numb. The
room started to turn. “What’s happening to me?”

My heart started to beat a thousand times a minute. My legs began to
feel weak, and I felt as though I would collapse at any moment.
Gasping for air, I leant against a freezer door. “Deep breaths,
Rachel. Breathe in and out. In and out. Just breathe.”

Next thing I knew, I was sitting on the floor of aisle 9 with my back
against the freezer doors, framed by tubs of Haagen Daz ice-cream and
berry-red popsicles. Hysterical, curled into a ball, and with tears
streaming down my face, I must have looked a pitiful sight.

“What’s happening to me?” I cried. My knees were pushed into my chest,
my head was bowed, and my shoulders rose and fell with every sob.
“What is going on?”

With every second that ticked by, I could feel the adrenaline pumping
through my veins, shooting up and down my arms like an electric shock.
Like waves on a seashore, the first wave swept through, then drew back
for a moment—giving a sheer second of relief—only to be swallowed up
by another pounding wave of dread.

At that moment, I felt a tap on my shoulder. “Are you okay, dear?” The
voice of an older woman broke into my whirlwind of chaos. With
bloodshot eyes and mascara running down my cheeks, I looked back at a
woman in her mid-50s. Holding a box of Cheerios in one hand and a
bottle of Windex cleaner in the other, she was looking at me with a
concerned expression on her face.  “Are you okay, dear? Can I help
you?” she asked again. “No, I’m not okay.” I replied with a muffled
voice, “I don’t think I’m okay.”

What I said next was one of the most important declarations I had ever
made. It was the turning point. “But I haven’t told anyone that yet. I
need to tell someone. I think something’s wrong. Really wrong.”

Since the age of 19, I have suffered from anxiety. I’m one of the
millions of people who struggle with this mental health disorder. In
college, while other 20-somethings were busy worrying about what to
wear out on a Friday night, I would retreat to my dorm room googling
my latest symptoms and thinking that I had some form of cancer (stage
III, most likely). Otherwise, I would be frantically checking my phone
every two seconds to see if my friend had replied to my message. “Of
course she won’t. She’s seen the real me. And she’s decided I’m not
worth it.”

Now, at 26 years old, I want so badly to declare that I have conquered
all this stuff, that I have overcome all the complexities of this
disorder. I wish I could say that my anxiety is a thing of the past,
that it is no longer knocking on my door to wake me up in the morning
or leaning over my bed to watch as I toss and turn at night. But I
haven’t conquered it, and it’s not a thing of the past.

Perhaps the most discouraging thing about anxiety is dealing with it
as a Christian. In many parts of evangelical America, admitting you
have anxiety is kind of like admitting you have a problem with
alcohol. Or drugs. Or one-night stands. Or eating a Big Mac in your
dorm room at 2.a.m. It’s a sinful “habit” and it will sweep you to the
margins, out of sight and out of mind of middle-class American
churchgoers.

Or at least, this is how some churches have often made me feel. A deep
and all-consuming guilt was all packaged, gift wrapped and hand-
delivered to me each and every morning I stepped inside a church
building. And while I don’t believe for a second that the church will
ever be perfect, I had expected a more loving and accepting response
than the ones that I had received.

Since that humiliating incident in the supermarket, I have been
navigating my identity as a Christian with anxiety. I have had to
embark on the painfully slow process of finding that “thing” that
brings me rest and respite from the isolation and exhaustion that
comes from anxiety.

Worship, I have discovered, is that special space where I open up to
the Father and receive His peace—the kind of supernatural peace that
Paul talks about in Philippians 4. Here’s why worship has become my
antidote to moments of anxiety.

Worship is a state of mind, not just a supernatural high on Sunday
mornings. Initially, I saw Sunday worship sessions as the only time I
could receive God’s peace. However, I realized that worship isn’t just
meant for large gatherings or small group settings. Worshipping the
Father is a constant state of mind, an ever-present mindfulness of His
goodness and grace in my life. Practicing a heart of worship—whether
praying during my work commute or listening to a Bethel music playlist
as I clean my apartment—has been an integral part of my healing
journey from anxiety.



Getting a handle on my anxiety has meant that I’ve needed to get real
with God. And that means getting up close and personal, divulging all
of my doubts and secrets to Him like you would to your bestie over a
cup of coffee. Creating a safe space where I can speak to the Father
has been an instrumental part of my road to recovery—particularly
picking up my guitar and singing Scriptures over myself and my family.
I believe that there is power in declaring words of life to change the
mess in our lives. Worship is a powerful weapon against worry.



I love the quote by American author John Paul Jackson: “Peace is the
potting soil of revelation.” I find that it is often in those moments
of fear, that the channel of communication between me and God is most
fuzzy. But I also know that it’s in those moments when I feel at my
weakest, that worship ought to be the next bullet-point on my to-do
list. Setting aside space for God to speak to us in the midst of fear
is a powerful step to leaving our anxiety at the door. It is in those
“thin places” where we hear from and speak to God, that faith takes
authority over fear.



I want to be careful here, as I don’t want for a second to portray to
you that I have this all figured out. Navigating anxiety can at times
feel nearly impossible. More often than not, it feels like treading
water in the deep end of the pool—when you have never taken a single
swimming lesson in your life. And there is no one around to throw you
a life jacket the minute you start to go under.

God has so much more in store for us than a daily battle with fear. I
pray that as we cultivate a lifestyle of worship, we may find
ourselves free from the chains of anxiety that have kept us from
stepping into the thing that God has called us to do.

