http://ymi.today/2017/06/is-dressing-modestly-overrated/

Is Dressing Modestly Overrated?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Hannah Shoue, USA

I’ve always felt uneasy about the topic of modesty.

Growing up in church, I heard many different rules and principles
about modesty. However, I often had difficulty accepting some of
them—something I know other Christian girls have dealt with as well.

In high school, I witnessed the shame and degradation my friends felt
when they were punished for dress code offenses, such as wearing
leggings or shorts that were too short. They were often sent to spend
the day in the administrative office or forced to wear clothes from
the lost and found box over their offensive attire.

I never saw any of my male classmates punished for dress code
offences, and the females punished were often of a larger body type.
To me, this made the dress code system seem incredibly unfair. Seeing
my friends humiliated for wearing the “wrong” type of clothing led me
to conclude that strict principles of modesty were unfair, and their
application resulted only in unnecessary shame.

As I grew older, I continued to struggle with these ideas of modesty.
How were we supposed to know where to draw the line? And why? Some
principles about modesty made sense and were easy to understand. For
example, dressing with the purpose of seduction is clearly wrong.

But other reasons for dressing conservatively didn’t make sense. For
example, I was told that I needed to cover up so that people wouldn’t
assume the wrong things about my reputation, because my body belonged
to my future husband, or so that the men around me wouldn’t be tempted
to sin.

But that’s where the problem begins—when a woman is held responsible
for the thoughts and actions of the men around her. In many societies,
when a woman is sexually assaulted, she is told it is her fault
because of how she dressed. I cannot disagree more. In fact, studies
have shown that most people are sexually assaulted by someone they
know, and that clothing is almost never a factor. Teaching young women
that they need to cover up so the men around them will not sin
contributes to a culture that normalizes and diminishes the
significance of sexual assault and blames the victims.

Some ideas about modesty also suggest that the way a woman dresses can
indicate how promiscuous she might be. This kind of thinking is
dangerous, because it can encourage judgment and condemnation over
mercy and grace.

So, is modesty important then? Though I’ve struggled with some of the
principles and ideas that I’ve heard about modesty, I believe that
modesty is important—but not because of what I’ve been told. Rather,
it’s important because God calls us to be good stewards of the things
He has given us, including our bodies. I believe that modesty is
important—but not because of what I’ve been told. Rather, it’s
important because God calls us to be good stewards of the things He
has given us, including our bodies.

I act and dress in the knowledge that my body is a temple to the Lord
and a gift from Him. I choose to honor God and myself by dressing in a
way that is appropriate, but also in a way that makes me feel
confident in the skin God has made for me. This means I wear clothing
that I feel confident and beautiful in, and yet keep certain parts of
my body covered up. As the steward of my body, I have chosen to save
those parts of myself for my future husband. I do this not because my
body belongs to him, but because I want to be a responsible and wise
steward of my body.

Proverbs 31:30 states, “Charm is deceptive, and beauty is fleeting;
but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.” While this verse is
not saying that wearing cute clothes and looking good on the outside
is wrong, our main concern must be with inner beauty. Proverbs
31:10-31 describes the “wife of noble character” as a woman who is
compassionate to the poor, trustworthy, wise, kind, and provides for
her family.

When it comes to being a Christian woman, the way I dress is
important, but it is only one aspect of living the life of a
Christian. Being a Christian—man or woman—is about so much more than
clothing. It’s about living each day as passionate, creative,
intelligent, merciful, and generous image-bearers of God that we are
created to be.

