http://ymi.today/2017/10/7-prayers-for-those-battered-by-natural-
disasters/

7 Prayers for Those Battered by Natural Disasters

Author: by Janel Breitenstein

Like many of you, my eyes have riveted on stories about hurricanes
Irma, Jose, Katia, and Maria, which have dismantled the lives of
thousands across the Caribbean. Added to these are the earthquakes in
Mexico, the pummelling by Hurricane Harvey, and wildfires which have
torched the western portion of the USA.

When a natural disaster hits, it leaves many in sudden, abject
poverty. It destroys homes and takes away lives. It leaves many
stranded without basic resources such as clean, drinkable water.

Having worked for 5½ years in Africa for an aid organization, I’ve had
a glimpse of what poverty means. The hurricanes, however, also opened
my eyes to another kind of poverty.

Victims of natural disasters are poor because they have been robbed of
something more than their homes and basic facilities. Apart from
losing their material possessions and essential resources, they no
longer have the sense of security that they can survive the next hit.
Apart from losing their material possessions and essential resources,
they no longer have the sense of security that they can survive the
next hit. They live in fear of the next storm, and have nowhere they
can shelter safely. They can’t even turn to their friends and
neighbours, who are just as badly hit.

I caught a tiny glimpse of how it must feel to lose things that are
important to you when I was robbed. During our tenure in Uganda, the
thieves ran away with so much more than my purse and electronics. They
temporarily extracted my peace of mind; my sense of trust; a slice of
my children’s innocence and my husband’s sense of being able to
protect his family.

This helps us better understand our role when we step in to assist
victims of natural disasters. Even if we were able to wave a magic
wand and restore all of their possessions, there would still exist a
poverty untouched.

This forms the backbone of my prayers for those hit by natural
disasters. I pray that God would restore their sense of peace,
materially and otherwise.

Victims of natural disasters: We remember you, and we’re on our knees.
Readers: Will you pray with us for the following?



Like the disciples in a floundering, water-logged boat, our eyes are
so often glued to the turbulent waves rather than their Master.

Let them repeatedly hand all their anxiety and fear to You. As they
trust You, guard their hearts in Your peace (Philippians 4:8). Let
Your peace be their anchors amid any circumstances, no matter how deep
the raging waters are.



When the physical stores that we’ve relied on are suddenly gone in an
instant, it can be terrifying to have no resources in sight.

Please care for these victims’ physical needs and provide them their
daily bread. Let them not worry about what they’ll eat or drink or
wear, but trust that You see them and care deeply for them (Matthew
6:26). Let them seek You, and lack no good thing (Psalm 34:10). In
times of their deep need, give them the strength to endure anything
(Philippians 4:13).



There are so many decisions to be made after a natural disaster
strikes. Where should reconstruction begin? What are the most
important needs? What issues must be addressed in the meantime? Where
are safe and trustworthy places to go for help?

Help victims and aid workers to move forward, not in impulsive fear,
but to operate with Your peace, trusting in Your care and constancy.
You led nomadic Israelites with a fire and a cloud. Help these victims
seek Your wisdom for their next step in their recovery (James 1:5-6).



It can be hardest to trust You when we walk through overwhelming grief
and loss. Show each person the tender, specific care You have for
them, and that You remember every single one of them.

Let them trust You even when You take away (Job 1:21). Help them see
that any disaster, any evil that they run into, is still on Your leash
and that You are still in control of their situation. Help us, Good
Father, to trust You when we can’t see.



Father, You have not abandoned them for even a second! Let them see
You in every open door, every glass of water, every kind smile, and
every gentle grasp. Provide love for them through friends, family, and
strangers. Go before these victims of tragedy, paving their way in
graciousness.

Motivate Your people to love generously, as an act of love to You
(Matthew 25:34-40). Open our own hearts towards them in sacrificial
generosity and make us our brother’s keeper—even if it’s a brother
we’ve never met.



Restore the happiness and necessities taken by these disasters (Joel
2:24-26), be it homes, vehicles, irreplaceable mementos, or clothing,
and give them a peace of mind.



Lord, be their hiding place and refuge, a constant presence and help
in trouble. Let them know that You are personally and intimately
involved in their lives, and reassure them that You are always with
them (Psalm 46:1). We beg You to spare them any more calamity—whether
it is concurrent diseases or recurring natural disasters—and show us
Your undeserved favour. We rely on You, Lord!



Janel is an author, freelance writer, and speaker. After five and a
half years in East Africa, her family of six has returned to Colorado,
where they continue to work on behalf of the poor with Engineering
Ministries International. Her first book, on spiritual life skills for
messy families (Zondervan), is planned to release March 2021. You can
find her having uncomfortable, important conversations at
JanelBreitenstein.com and on Instagram @janelbreit.



