http://ymi.today/2015/10/3-work-realities-were-bound-to-face/

Making Sense of a Less-Than-Perfect Job

Author: by Amy Ji

I read about 10-15 resumes a day as a recruitment manager in my
company, which engages around a hundred part-time trainers monthly.
Many of them begin or end with this line: “I hope you can seriously
consider my application as this is my dream job.”

Inevitably, I will get a long email or WhatsApp message from the new
hire some two months into his or her job. It will say something like
this: “Dear Hiring Manager, I regret to inform you that I . . .”—and
go on to say that the new hire wants to quit. These are the top
reasons given:

Perhaps it really isn’t the “dream job” many of these hires envision
it to be, but this trend of quitting just a few months into a job got
me thinking: Should we be looking for the “dream job”?

While the Bible does not answer this question, it gives us stories of
individuals whom we can learn from. Joseph is one example. Not only
was he thrust into a completely new and foreign environment after his
brothers sold him as a slave, he was practically thrown from job to
job. Despite his unfortunate circumstances, however, he did his best
in every position, including as a prisoner. Doesn’t this remind you of
Paul’s words in Colossians 3:23? “Whatever you do, work at it with all
you heart, as working for the Lord and not for man.”

Having gone through five years of teaching and three years in the
corporate world, I’ve learned a few lessons about work—and am still
learning.

Just as there is no perfect marriage—since it is a union of two
imperfect beings—there is no perfect or dream job. There are, however,
jobs that will allow us to be challenged daily and enable us to work
on our weaknesses while honing our strengths.

My primary role in my current job is to teach, but I also get to come
up with character and leadership programmes based on biblical
principles. I also have to do everything myself, from printing and
filing to churning out reports and delivering lessons. It may not be
the perfect job, but it allows me to learn new skills while pursuing
my passion for both the Bible and young people. The fact that I can
use my talent and skills daily gives me joy.

Joseph did not become the governor of the world’s most advanced
civilization overnight. The management and decision-making skills
would have come from managing Potiphar’s household and from his time
in prison, before he became Egypt’s governor.

What did you enjoy doing when you were growing up? Do you like working
with your hands or analyzing difficult concepts? These are clues to
help you decide what type of job you ought to look for.

In any company, you’ll find that different people will have different
expectations of you. That’s because people have different work ethics
and management styles. Even if a company has a clear vision and hires
a particular type of staff, each individual is unique.

When I first started at my current company, I almost drove my bosses
mad. People here are organized and keep their table-tops clean, but I
occupied any flat surface I could find with my handwritten notes,
worksheets, and draft plans. Although I worked best this way, it did
not mean I had the right to do it at the expense of others. So I
compromised by moving my “workspace” into the outer office. That way,
my colleagues could work in peace while I had the freedom to move
around.

Joseph could not choose whom he worked with, but he could choose how
he worked. He was stuck in a less-than-ideal job situation, yet the
Bible shows us that he kept a positive work attitude and good work
ethic.

Do you know your unique God-created function? Are you a confident
communicator, a comforting listener, or a meticulous note-taker? The
way God shaped you can give insight into what you can offer your team.

Proverbs 9:9 tells us, “Instruct a wise man and he will be wiser
still; teach a righteous man and he will add to his learning.”

When it comes to work, some of us are so good at what we do that we
think we’ve attained it all. What next, then? While it’s great to be
good at our jobs, there’s always room for improvement. Mastered
PowerPoint? Learn to use Excel. Mastered public speaking? Learn the
art of listening. A worker who constantly seeks to grow not only adds
value to the company, but also gains lifelong skills for himself or
herself.

As a teacher, I’ve been certified for some “skills” outside the
classroom: kayaking, white-water rafting, floorball coaching, national
exam marking . . . and so on. It’s a strange assortment, I must admit,
but I’ll never know when they will come in handy. (A month-long
backpacking trip in New Zealand, maybe?)

From the life of Joseph, I’ve learned that there might never be that
perfect job, but I can align my heart, attitude, and work ethic with
the perfect God. That makes all the difference.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



