http://ymi.today/2015/09/follow-your-heart-really/

Follow Your Heart . . . Really?

Author: by Kezia Lewis

Follow your heart, and do what makes you happy.

People offered me this advice countless times while I was growing up.
They said it was the secret recipe to living a pleasurable, joyful
life. This creed to finding happiness was to be found
everywhere—whatever I read, watched, and listened to. Needless to say,
my impressionable mind soaked in it.

So I followed my heart—and dived straight into a whirlpool of
destructive choices. I pursued romantic relationships, casting aside
prudence and warnings because I was desperate to be with somebody. I
let my heart’s desires and pride take precedence over others, and hurt
my friends in the process.

It didn’t help that the culture I grew up in was inclined to follow
our sentiments. It was easy for me to sway from one compromise to
another, driven purely by the emotions that movies, music, or certain
individuals evoked in me. I allowed my feelings to steer my judgments
and to determine my actions. That took me onto a rollercoaster ride of
emotions. I chased and dropped people, ran after achievements and
things, and went after the world’s applause. It was an insane ride
that carved a big hole in my soul. I wasn’t sure who I was becoming. I
was destroying myself, bit by bit.

I felt trapped, lost, and confused. The irony was that the pain I felt
led me to more irrational decisions and even more suffering. My own
heart piloted me to ruin; it didn’t occur to me that it was not
reliable when it came to what was good and true; I had presumed it
would point me to real happiness.

In the end, after an extensive stint in the department of self-
inflicted pain, I realized: My heart was not dependable.

Who Knows Our Hearts?

Jeremiah 17:9 says: “The heart is deceitful above all things and
beyond cure. Who can understand it?”

With my unenviable past in the backdrop, this verse spoke truth to my
weakened soul when I first read it. It showed me that as the heart was
deceitful and wicked, following it wouldn’t be a wise prescription if
I wanted to live a meaningful, happy life. So, if I couldn’t trust my
heart, what could I trust? What or whom could I turn to for guidance?

Psalm 37:4 and Luke 10:27 offered answers: Take delight in the Lord,
and He will give you the desires of your heart. Love Him with all of
yourself—your heart, your soul, your strength, and your mind. These
were the missing components in the creed I had been subscribing to. I
realized that only God could truly know my heart. When I learned to
cherish Him with all of myself and take pleasure in Him (which I
learned through consistently spending time with Him), He became my
heart, and His desires, my desires. When I learned to cherish Him with
all of myself and take pleasure in Him (which I learned through
consistently spending time with Him), He became my heart, and His
desires, my desires. I began to long for righteous things and to seek
to honor Him in all that I did.

Before this, I had been foolish. I had let my heart, with its own
fleeting and fickle appetites, lead me into making all kinds of
decisions and choices that left me scarred. Although there were
moments when I felt happy chasing my own fleshly inclinations and
doing what I wanted, the happiness was always short-lived, and in the
end, I always felt acutely empty. A big vacuum had settled in my soul
that I didn’t know how to fill.

But now, in grasping how to delight myself in God more and more, I
have discovered that I am enjoying His presence above all else. Now, I
not only find life more pleasurable, but the emptiness that I used to
feel has vanished. In its place I find an overflow of love, joy, and
happiness, because my satisfaction now rests in the Lord.

Adore the Lord first and above all. Let Him reign supreme in your
heart. Let your contentment be found in Him alone. Let His glory be
your utmost goal. Only then will following your heart make you truly
happy.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Choices“



Kezia resides with her husband, Jason, in Krabi, Thailand where she
serves alongside him in the ministry under Sowers International and
teaches English at a local Thai school. She and her sister were named
by her mom (who has not read the Bible before that) after two of Job’s
new daughters (Job 42:14). She sees that as God telling her she is
“His daughter.” She loves to call God as Father for He is that to her.
She feels particularly calm when it rains and loves to be near any
body of water.

She blogs at kezia-lewis.com.



