http://ymi.today/2017/06/what-if-god-made-me-pretty/

What if God Made Me Pretty?

Author: by Agnes Lee

I am short, stocky, and average-looking. When I was growing up, people
used to comment about how flat my nose was. A friend even told me that
my nose looked like it had been hit by something.

I was introduced to Barbie dolls as a kid; they were so pretty, tall,
and slim. Lead actresses of my favorite television series were
similarly attractive, and I wished I looked like them. Though I knew
it was more important to be healthy than pretty, it was difficult to
accept that God gave me such ordinary looks compared to other females
around me.

Around the age of 18, I decided that I wanted to change my appearance.
Instead of my usual t-shirts and jeans, I started dressing more
fashionably, wearing accessories, hats, and jackets.  I also started
wearing make-up whenever I went out. However, make-up could only cover
my flaws, not change them. I could not change my height. And despite
exercise and sweat, I could not change my body shape either; all I
wanted was a bit more curve. I wanted to be pretty and popular, like
the models and actresses I admired.

In my early 20s, I met with an aesthetic doctor to talk about possible
procedures to enhance my facial features. But after considering the
risks and regular Botox injections required, I shelved the idea. Aside
from changing my looks, I also wanted to change my body shape, but the
doctor could not suggest any procedure that I was comfortable with.
Height lengthening procedure is extremely risky as it involves major
leg surgery, and the success is not guaranteed. After considering
these risks, costs, and non-guaranteed outcomes, it did not take me
long to put away the idea of cosmetic surgery.

On top of wishing that I were more attractive, I secretly wished to
have a boyfriend. Many of the girls in school who had boyfriends were
pretty, and I assumed that I did not have one because I was not good-
looking. I was also shy and thought that pretty girls were confident,
sociable, and popular because of their looks. I envied them. I hated
God and felt that He was not fair. He made so many girls pretty but
not me. I disliked my pretty friends. I did not like mixing with them
because being around them made me feel ugly and uncomfortable. So I
tended to ignore them and their feelings.

I simply could not understand Psalm 139:14, which says that we are all
“fearfully and wonderfully made.” I felt that it did not relate to me.
I was upset and told God, “You must be kidding me. If I am really
carefully and wonderfully made, I would have been a pretty sweet young
lady.”

It was not until I came across Proverbs 31:30 one day during my quiet
time that I realized how God was speaking to me. It says, “Charm is
deceptive, and beauty is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord is
to be praised.” Another verse which impacted me was 1 Peter 3:3, “Your
beauty should not come from outward adornment, such as elaborate
hairstyles and the wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes.”

God is not looking for someone charming or beautiful, but for someone
who fears Him. He does not look at our exterior beauty, but at our
hearts. These verses humbled me and made me realize how superficial I
had been by focusing only on temporal beauty instead of Him. God had
never condemned me; I was the one who condemned myself because I felt
ugly. In fact, God praises women who fear Him. So if I wanted to be
praised by Him, I had to fear him. I had to honor Him by placing Him
before myself.

Though I still do not know why God made some girls pretty and not
others, I know we are safe when we run to Him with our feelings. His
word speaks truth to satisfy the void in us. Though I still do not
know why God made some girls pretty and not others, I know we are safe
when we run to Him with our feelings. His word speaks truth to satisfy
the void in us. Bible says in Isaiah 55:9 that God’s ways are higher
than my ways and His thoughts than my thoughts. Surely I can trust God
that He has made me perfect in His own ways, as it says in Psalm
139:14. He made each of us exactly the way He meant us to be, in order
to fulfill our unique individual calling and purpose in the highest
manner.

As I progress in the knowledge of His word, I feel called to serve Him
in writing. I feel God’s truth seeping into every area of my life and
speaking to me. I also gain fresh insights when I read the writings of
fellow Christians who share their thoughts about how God has worked in
their lives. It encourages me. And I feel the burden to do the same,
to share with others my own experiences and thoughts so that others
can be encouraged as well in times of need. To write, I need not be
pretty on the outside. What I need is a pure undivided heart that
desires God above all else, and to make Him my sole desire.

Looking back, if I had been pretty, I might have my earlier dreams of
being a model fulfilled. The nature of the job may not allow me to
dress modestly, and I may also be too proud of my body. I may not
treat my body with respect or remember that it is the temple where the
Holy Spirit dwells (1 Corinthians 6:19). God has made me the way I
need to be to focus on Him and to embrace my calling in Him.

Now, although I am still tempted to wish for physical beauty whenever
I see someone pretty, I remind myself that the world’s definition of
beauty is not God’s definition of beauty. I fully understand that I do
not need to be pretty to be confident. My confidence is in God who
praises those who fear Him and speaks to us in our calling. I am now
assured in Psalm 139:14 that I am perfectly made. He gives me
confidence that I am handmade by Him personally and that my identity
is in Him.



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



