http://ymi.today/2016/02/3-unexpected-benefits-of-being-the-third-
wheel/

3 Unexpected Benefits of Being the Third Wheel

Author: by Vania Tan

Are you a third wheel (or light bulb, as it is known in some
cultures)?

For those clueless about what this is, a third wheel is a person who
hangs out with a couple—and who can become an awkward addition to a
romantic date.

If you’re not sure whether you’ve become a third wheel, here are some
hints. You’re a close friend of the couple and spend a lot of time
with them. Or, a good friend of yours starts to invite his or her
other half to tag along in your regular hangouts. Or, you’re the only
one left with a couple after everyone else leaves.

Like it or not, a third wheel is usually unwelcome, and is seen by
many as a lonely, single person who has no choice but to play
gooseberry (that’s what a third wheel does).

Have you ever wondered why we think this way? Why do we give the third
wheel such a bad name?

This question could be answered by an apt analogy I once heard, of a
kid learning how to ride a bicycle. Most of us start by riding a
tricycle, but once we’re able to handle a bicycle, we can’t wait to
get rid of the third wheel.

I’ve been a third wheel on many occasions in the past three years and
believe it or not, I’ve come to see the bright side of it.

Here’s some unexpected benefits I’ve received from being a third
wheel:

1. You learn to be more sensitive and aware of others’ needs

What do you do when there’re three of you but you’re given a table for
four in a restaurant? It’s obvious, isn’t it? You let the couple sit
next to each other, while you take the chair opposite. And what do you
do when the meal comes to an end? Well, move aside and give the couple
some space for their displays of affection.

But what if you notice that the couple are struggling with issues like
miscommunication or unmet expectations that they themselves might not
even be aware of? You could find the right opportunity to point out
these issues (gently), encourage them to talk about them, and point
them back to God.

Sure, this is no easy task. But think of it as caring for the needs of
your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, which includes to “speak
the truth in love” (Eph 4:15) and to “look out for the interest of
others” (Philippians 2:4). A word of caution: this should be done with
much care and sensitivity, so you don’t come across as judge or
arbiter.

Being a third wheel can help you sharpen your awareness of what’s
going on around you and teach you to discern what’s best to say or do
at any given point. It can help turn you into a more sensitive and
considerate person—important traits that will help you relate better
to others.

2. You learn the do’s and don’ts of a relationship

When you witness and take note of how a couple relates to each other,
you’ll get a realistic picture of what being in a relationship
entails.

I learned the importance of affirming each other and knowing when and
how to say the right things at the right moment on a recent shopping
trip with a couple. Midway through, the boy offended the girl and both
of them got into a disagreement. This started a cold war, with me
caught in between. After I talked to both sides and tried to play the
role of mediator, the boy took the initiative to apologize to the
girl—and things went back to normal.

Or, you could just ask the couple for relationship tips and advice
directly. You’ll be surprised by how willing most couples are to share
about their relationship journey, including their quirks and habits.

Discovering that relationships are not all sugar and spice will go a
long way in helping you prepare for your own relationship in future.
You will be more aware of the potential pitfalls as well as good
habits or practices to adopt.

3. You learn to be satisfied with your own life

Wondering how that’s possible? Well, if you’re a person who is prone
to feeling envious of others who are in relationships, being a third
wheel can teach you a lot about life and help you see beyond your own
little bubble. You have the opportunity to witness and understand the
joys and woes of different stages of a relationship and life by
observing the couple, without even having to go through them yourself.

If nothing else, you’ll start to see that everyone has different lots
in life and that we should learn to be content with what we have.
Thank God for where He has placed you presently, and make the most out
of the season you’re in.



As third wheels, we can be used by God to benefit others. Let’s heed
His call to “be devoted to one another in love” (Romans 12:10) and to
“encourage one another and build each another up” (1 Thessalonians
5:11).

Over time, I believe you’ll come to a greater appreciation of your
role as a third wheel—just as I have.



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



