http://ymi.today/2015/07/i-cant-stop-sinning-what-should-i-do/

I Can’t Stop Sinning: What Should I Do?

Author: by Contributor

Written By James Bunyan

James Bunyan is a bit of a fidget, to be honest. His inability to sit
still tends to spill over into all sorts of areas of his life; he
loves travelling, good writing, all sports (except frisbee), the sense
of purpose that the gospel gives him, exotic teas and the satisfaction
of peeling off a sticker all in one go. He lives in Teddington
(London), where he is training to be a vicar in the Church of England.
For James and his wife Lois, lockdown in London was improved by the
arrival of their daughter, Galilee, who just learned to clap.

I’ve just joined a squash club and I’m starting to think it was a
mistake.

For one, the membership, courts, new shoes, racquet, and balls are
expensive. Secondly, every game reduces me to a sweaty mess—surely it
must be unhealthy to sweat that much in one 40-minute window. Thirdly,
I don’t think I’m very good. A few weeks ago, I lost a match in 10
minutes flat to a lady who has grandchildren my age. While I put so
much effort into it that I was off work for two days with a bad back,
she didn’t even break enough sweat to justify taking off her hoodie.

I’m starting to wonder whether squash is for me.

The big problem is not that I don’t understand the theory of how to
play—I just can’t do it in practice. Often, I’ve planned exactly what
shot to play, but when I step into it, my arm does the complete
opposite to what I want it to do. I know exactly where on the court I
should be in theory, but in practice I’m usually facing the wrong
direction.

I get the theory. But I just can’t do it.

Ever felt that your faith was like that? Like you know the theory, but
you just can’t do it? You know that living as a Christian involves
killing your sin but sometimes you do the things you know aren’t right
and enjoy them, and every time you do, you feel like you’ve let God
down again. You know that living as a Christian involves killing your
sin but sometimes you do the things you know aren’t right and enjoy
them, and every time you do, you feel like you’ve let God down again.
You just can’t help yourself.

How on earth do you change this?

Well, this isn’t a new problem; Paul the apostle describes going
through pretty much the same thing in Romans 7:18–19.

“For I know that good itself does not dwell in me, that is, in my
sinful nature. For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot
carry it out. For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do
not want to do—this I keep on doing.”

What’s his answer? Given what he’s said so far in Romans, it’s no
surprise:

“Thanks be to God, who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord!”
(Romans 7:25)

That seems a little obvious; in the Bible, the answer is often
“Jesus”. The question is, however, how exactly does Jesus help us stop
sinning?

Well, the first part of the answer is that, throughout Romans, Paul
applies to Christians what Jesus has done in dying on the cross and
rising from the dead, explaining to them that this totally changes
everything about their identity. This is because Jesus did a mighty
swap on the cross, taking their sinful and messed-up identities on
Himself, destroying them as He died, and giving to all who believe in
Him His perfect identity instead, leaving them spotless.

It’s almost as if He’s swapped His spotless white shirt for their
disgustingly filthy, stained shirts, then destroyed the stained ones
on Himself before rising. Paul explains over and over that Jesus now
owns Christians and has made them totally sinless and pure. And
because that’s something Jesus has achieved by Himself, whatever
Christians feel about themselves doesn’t change the reality.

If you’re a Christian, you may not feel much different from before.
You may seem to go on sinning. You may feel unable to do right. But
because Jesus has died and risen for you, your identity is
fundamentally changed; it is sinless now. You may seem to go on
sinning. You may feel unable to do right. But because Jesus has died
and risen for you, your identity is fundamentally changed; it is
sinless now.

That’s why Paul starts the next bit of Romans 8:1–2 like this:

“Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ
Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit who gives
life has set you free from the law of sin and death.”

And don’t forget that Jesus’ death and resurrection achieved so much
because He’s no ordinary man: He is the infinite Lord of the universe,
so when He says you are now without sin, you are.

Doesn’t that make you thank God for Jesus?

Why does God teach us this over and over again in His Bible? It’s
because we have ridiculously short memories—it’s in teaching ourselves
over and over again what the Lord has achieved for us in His death and
resurrection, that we will begin to understand that sin has no hold on
us anymore.

Plus, knowing this can change what we will want to do, because
compared to the magnificence of knowing who Jesus is, those sinful
habits of ours just seem shoddy, unexciting, and pathetic. And the
more we understand Jesus’ magnificence, the more we’ll know this is
true. We will slowly begin to change what we want to do.

So, if you find yourself understanding the theory but unable to stop
sinning, don’t despair. The answer isn’t a frenzied guilt trip or to
somehow try to punish yourself. The answer is to have a bigger view of
what Jesus has done for you. The more you understand that, the more
you’ll realize that “being a sinner” is just not you anymore.

There’s one more thing to add. And that is to say that following Jesus
involves sweat.

I probably will carry on with squash. To be fair, I’ve been playing it
only a few months and, with all the effort I am putting into training,
I am getting a little bit better; the last time I played the same
grandma, it took 15 minutes before I lost. If I want to get better at
it, I should expect to have to sweat at it.

Why do we assume that learning to live this new identity as a
Christian is any different?

The Bible describes becoming a Christian in several different ways:
being born again, being brought from death to life, becoming a new
creation, leaving the kingdom of darkness for the Kingdom of God. One
of the things they all have in common is that they all sound
difficult.

Keep fighting. Keep sweating. And all the way through, know that Jesus
has already changed you from the inside out.

“No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who
loved us.” (Romans 8:37)

