http://ymi.today/2017/04/when-i-couldnt-feel-god/

When I Couldn’t Feel God

Author: by Contributor

Photo taken by Alan Ang Written By Edna Ho, Malaysia

I glanced across the hall. There were hundreds of people, all from
different states across Malaysia, gathered together for the annual
convention organized by my church. My heart was bursting with
excitement and anticipation. I thought to myself, “This is it. There
are so many people here with hungry and thirsty hearts. God is surely
going to move in this place. If He’s going to speak to these people,
He will surely speak to me.”

I bore high hopes that I would be crying tears of joy and drowning in
His unmistakable presence throughout the three-day convention. After
all, my pastors and leaders had been encouraging the congregation to
expect God to move mightily in the convention lest we fail God through
our faithlessness—as the Bible mentioned in Matthew 13:58, “And he did
not do many miracles there because of their lack of faith.”

After the sermon on the first night, there was a special ministering
session where the pastor asked those who felt lost, stagnant, or far
away from God to raise their hands and rise from their seats. Many
hands went up, including mine. Then he started ministering
encouragement while the worship team sang  softly in the background.
It was nothing short of powerful and the pastor emphasized that he
could “sense” God’s strong presence.

I’m embarrassed to admit this, but I wasn’t “feeling” God that much at
that point of time. Yes I did cry, yes I did feel the words of the
songs when I sang them, but I seemed to be missing out on something.
All around me, people were in tears, kneeling on the floor, and
lifting their hands up high to God. Was there something wrong with me?
Why couldn’t I feel God as much? I tried to search deeper in my heart
for that same feeling, but nothing came up. I still couldn’t
experience Him as much as those around me.

I wasn’t going to give up. I told myself this was just the first
night. The following night was the highlight of the convention; it was
a healing and prophetic event. Sure enough, the guest speaker started
prophesying on the second night. He called some of the participants by
their names and stated their specific conditions. Then he called out
those who had various illnesses, and got the leaders to pray over
them. Some were healed instantly while others saw improvements.
Lastly, he got the leaders to stand in a line, with those who needed
prayers lining up in front of their assigned leaders. I stood in front
of a leader I had not met before (and would therefore not know my
innermost needs beforehand), expecting to receive some accurate
prophecies. What I got instead was a general prayer.

Honestly, I was disappointed—not so much in the lady, but in God. I
questioned Him secretly in my heart, “Oh God, I came with such high
expectations. I even fasted and prayed before I came. What’s wrong?
Why aren’t You speaking to me? Am I not desperate enough compared to
the others? Is there sin in me that’s hindering me?”

God didn’t give me an answer that night. It was only days later when I
was reading an article on a Christian blog that I came across these
verses in 1 Kings 19:11-12 (NLT):

“Go out and stand before me on the mountain,” the Lord told him. And
as Elijah stood there, the Lord passed by, and a mighty windstorm hit
the mountain. It was such a terrible blast that the rocks were torn
loose, but the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind there was an
earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake.  And after the
earthquake there was a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And
after the fire there was the sound of a gentle whisper.”

That’s when it hit me.

Just as Elijah had to learn that God could choose to work in quieter
ways, God was telling me that He did not need hype or big events to
move and speak into our lives. He has been speaking, is speaking, and
will continue to speak even in the mundane and the routine, just like
a still small voice in our hearts. He has been speaking, is speaking,
and will continue to speak even in the mundane and the routine, just
like a still small voice in our hearts. We shouldn’t be chasing a
certain experience or feeling when we worship Him. Instead, the
correct way would be to focus on God Himself and His faithfulness.
Sooner or later, we’d be enveloped by His overwhelming goodness.

I had been wrongly chasing a certain feeling and experience throughout
the entire convention. But not experiencing the feeling did not mean
that God was not there. He was still there, and His truths are still
the same, equally valid and equally life-changing.

