http://ymi.today/2017/10/what-to-do-when-we-are-prayerless/

What to Do When We Are Prayerless

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jonathan Hayashi, USA

On one occasion, my little girl drove me to tears.

She opened her arms the moment she saw me walk into the bedroom. There
was no doubt in her mind that her father was going to receive her. She
knew that I loved her and was full of joy to see her.

Do you remember a time when all you wanted to do was to pray and spend
time with God?  You knew that He would acknowledge you and your
greatest desire was to just be before Him? What has changed since?

We know how crucial prayer is in the Christian walk. To be a Christian
without praying is akin to be a human without breathing—we’re as good
as dead. Prayer is about connecting with God and loving Him. It is
about being God-centered, learning to look at life from God’s
perspective, and finding out what He wants.

Maybe you’re struggling to pray today. You feel like God does not care
enough to listen. I can recall a time in my spiritual journey when I
too struggled to pray. My heart was heavy and it almost felt
unbearable. My prayers felt as though they were not heard and I was
attacked from the evil one from every side. My desire to pray dwindled
as I wandered in the spiritual desert of isolation. I began to
question: Does God really listen to my prayers? Does he really hear me
when I cry out to him?

Through that season, these three reminders spoke to me:



Ask yourself honestly. Why are you not coming to God? Is it because
you feel too sinful for Him? That you’re not enough for Him?

Often, I look at myself and wonder why God would want Jonathan
Hayashi’s love. Why would He want to bother with a worthless being
like me compared to great men-of-faith like Charles Spurgeon, George
Whitefield, or Jonathan Edwards?

When we make prayer all about us, focusing on our inadequacies or
insecurities, instead of Him, that’s where the problem arises.

Combat your insecurities with truths from the Bible; don’t let Satan
tell you that you are too sinful to come to Him. Combat your
insecurities with truths from the Bible; don’t let Satan tell you that
you are too sinful to come to Him. When we became God’s children, our
sins were taken care of. When Jesus said “It is finished” on the cross
(John 19:30), it was a done deal. He made it possible for us to have a
restored relationship with Him and He wants to have a relationship
with us.



I know how counter-intuitive it sounds. However, I have learned over
the past few years that the best way to ignite my dullest moments is
to simply obey in faith. I come to God in prayer, trusting and
believing in Him more than I believe in my own feelings.

When I was a new believer, I would lock myself in a closet, desperate
to feel the presence of God. I prayed for the Lord to come and reveal
Himself to me. And in the quietness of the silence, I experienced the
presence and the joy of God.

If you feel like you don’t have the words to say to Him, take heart in
the fact that the Spirit intercedes for us. We just need to come to
Him. The Spirit helps us in our weakness and intercedes for us through
wordless groans (Romans 8:26). John Bunyan, a puritan preacher and
author of The Pilgrim’s Progress, said it well, “In prayer it is
better to have a heart without words than words without a heart.”



The Word of God is living and abiding and can give us words to pray
when we don’t have the words to say. The Scriptures, isn’t just for
teaching and correcting us. We can find comfort in His promises and
use the Psalms to cry out to Him. Psalm 86 begins with a plea for God
to hear David.

I recall a time a few years ago when I was struggling with sin. As I
mourned over all the ways I had failed and fallen short of His glory,
I felt like God couldn’t accept me and I wasn’t able to come to Him
because of what I’d done. Yet, I longed to be pleasing to Christ and
be a blessing unto Him.

Then I stumbled over these words in the Scriptures, “If we confess our
sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify
us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9). The verse blessed me,
reminding me that He accepts and takes delight in our prayer of
repentance.

Ultimately, prayer is not about mastering the mechanics of how to come
to God, or reciting poetic literature, or bringing a shopping list to
Jesus. Prayer is communion with God.

Satan hates prayer because it is the most important thing you can do
in your life. Satan trembles when he sees the weakest saint on his
knees before God. Don’t be dismayed (Isaiah 41:10) and don’t give up
on praying (Luke 18:1).

Have a little talk with Jesus today. Have a honest conversation with
Him. As Oswald Chambers once said, “Prayer does not equip us for
greater works—prayer is the greater work.”

