http://ymi.today/2017/08/love-isnt-all-about-happy-endings/

Love isn’t all about Happy Endings

Author: by Contributor

Written by Samantha Chin, Singapore

I absolutely adore animated movies—I grew up watching Disney movie
after Disney movie, singing to catchy tunes and laughing along with
the cute characters. Almost every plot involved a beautiful princess
who found a brave prince willing to slay dragons and evil witches all
in the name of love, and they lived happily ever after at the end of
the movie. Even dogs and lions found their one true love!

Little did I know, these movies were leading me to believe in a
picture of love and marriage that was unrealistic, but God corrected
my thinking along the way.



When I was 16, I dreamed of meeting someone special by 22, getting
married to him at 25, and having children by 28. This year I turn 29,
but wedding bells haven’t rung for me yet. Where was the fairytale
ending I had been hoping for?

Unlike the movies where one can easily predict that the “happily ever
after” will come at the end, it is never so predictable in real life.
It takes some people much longer to find their marriage partner—if
they do get married at all. Does it mean that all of us who are still
single should give up hope? No, I believe not. Instead, I believe God
is calling us to wait on His timing.

I have since come to understand that He knows best, and I need to
trust Him. Knowing I need this constant reminder, I have Proverbs 16:9
pasted on my bedroom wall, “A man’s heart plans his way, but the Lord
directs his steps.” Tough as it is, I believe He is using this time of
singleness to prune me so that I will be more prepared to enter into a
covenant relationship with someone He has in store for me when (and
if) the time comes. And I can certainly trust that the love story God,
my divine matchmaker writes will be so much more glorious than I can
ever plan or imagine.



Other than the perfect timing, I also had a grand idea of how the man
I would eventually marry would be like. He would be God-fearing,
humorous, caring, loves dogs, able to lead, able to listen attentively
yet also give good insight, as well as serve in full-time ministry, or
at least consider it. Without realizing it, I was actually looking for
someone who had it all together—just like the brave and handsome male
lead in the countless movies I had watched.

When my best friend commented that I would simply reject any guy God
might bring along who didn’t fulfill these ideals of mine, my first
response was to defend my position and argue that these were good
desires to have. After all, I wanted to serve God alongside my spouse.
Wasn’t that godly thinking?

But the reality is that marriage brings together two sinners who are
still works in progress. This means that the man I marry will have
weaknesses I may not like and quirks that irritate me. It means that I
too would have to confront and work on my own shortcomings. Love is
not just about receiving—it is also about giving. It is giving even
when I do not feel like it, when I’d rather be doing something else,
and when I just can’t stand the sight of him. Love is a verb, not
merely a feeling. I will experience romance and laughter, but I will
also experience sacrifice, humility, and refinement.

Marriage is about two imperfect people helping each other become more
like Christ. And maybe that is also what makes marriage so
wonderful—having someone who knows you inside out, warts and all, and
still loves you the same.



Cinderella was always dreaming about meeting her prince, so was
Rapunzel, and Snow White and, well, you get the idea. It was almost as
if their life was incomplete till they found “the one”. When they did,
it was bliss—a whole new world unlocked. Initially, I thought the same
way. I was constantly searching for someone who would finally make me
feel special and complete.

But another friend posed me this question: If one day you find the
person you have been dreaming of all your life, and yet you don’t feel
as fulfilled as you expected to be, what happens then?

That was a necessary reminder that I must first and foremost find my
ultimate fulfillment in Christ, for only He can truly satisfy. These
days, I am slowly becoming able to echo what the Psalmist says in
Psalms 73:25, “Whom have I in heaven but You? And there is nothing on
earth that I desire besides you.”



I still love animated movies, my friends can attest to that; but I now
watch them knowing that love isn’t all about happy endings. That
doesn’t make me desire marriage any less, and though I have much more
to learn, having a realistic understanding of it reduces the
likelihood I run in the other direction when facing difficulties with
my future spouse.



©2017 Whole Life. All rights reserved. This article was first
published on Wholelife.sg and republished with permission.

