https://ymi.today/2018/01/how-do-we-love-others-if-were-lonely/

How Do We Love Others If We’re Lonely?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Ross Boone, USA

I got into a great conversation with a girl at a party recently. She’s
been a friend for a long time, but it went so well I started to wish
she was more than a friend. But I could tell she didn’t want the same.

It’s hard to walk away from a party alone. No one’s hand to reach for.
It’s hard to be turned down. Especially when the holidays could be so
much sweeter with someone. It is then, that those little irrational
questions drift in: What’s wrong with me? Am I not lovable? Why am I
alone?

Last Christmas, I didn’t go home as I had traveled a lot last fall.
But as I was thinking about being alone over Christmas I recalled the
little bit of tension between my brother and me, and the argument we
had had a month or so ago. I know we love each other and that tension
helps us both grow to be better to each other. But my mind keeps going
back to that and asking: Have I failed as a family member? Is this in
some way an indicator of why I’m alone?

And sometimes, especially when I feel lonely, I find myself
remembering the small failures I’ve had with friends. That time I
accidentally stood up a new friend for dinner, and he hasn’t talked
much to me since. Or when I showed my impatience to a friend who was
just being kind and reaching out to talk. And again I start to ask
myself: Am I alone right now because of stuff I’ve done wrong? Have I
messed up my chances to be loved?

I need to remind myself that I have good friends, my family loves each
other, and I haven’t ruined my chances of romance. I know at times I
feel very loved and nothing has changed with most of those people. I
know people love me—so why does loneliness trick me into thinking
otherwise? It makes me feel empty of love. I’m like a dry pitcher no
other pitchers have poured into for a while, and I’m drying alone in
the sun.

Recently, however, I realized I was looking at this wrong.



God has given us a different way to look at love. 1 John 4:19 says,
“We love because He first loved us.” We are not a pitcher waiting to
be filled up by other pitchers. We are a pitcher that is filled up by
the source of water itself. We are a pitcher that is filled up by the
source of water itself. I must dip myself in the spring to receive His
love first. Then I can avoid a mindset of scarcity, and act out of one
of abundance.

This change in perspective is the most important part because all our
actions flow out of it. Our beliefs dictate our actions.

Maybe it’s hard to imagine that type of love. It can be hard for those
of us who have felt let down by God to picture God as good. Maybe
there was a promise you felt God didn’t come through on. Or maybe God
didn’t save you or someone you love from some horrible suffering.
Remember that the hard things that have happened to you are a result
of this worldly kingdom where God has allowed free wills to rule.
God’s love and His kingdom is the opposite of that. He longs for us to
know He loves us so much, even though it’s hard to see or feel through
the fog and free will of this world.

Imagine how you feel when you see the cute innocence of your baby, or
a nephew or niece, or even a new puppy, and how your heart wells with
love because you want and hope so much for them. Now imagine that is a
finite fraction of the love God wants to pour into you. He is your
father. He has so many hopes for you, and so many things He wants to
show you. He holds you closer than you hold your breath, and wants you
to live within, and out of that love.



The next step is to act on that infinite love. When you are wondering
why your family hasn’t called to check on you, or why your friend
seemed distant when you last talked, you can be the one to love first.
Act on your love for them. And do not make your love conditional on
whether they love you back. If they are not at a place where they can
give as much back, don’t require them to. For, as Acts 20:35 says, “It
is better to give than to receive.”

When it isn’t reciprocated, we must remember that there are many
reasons—some beyond our control—why friendships grow distant. Or that
romance is not returned. Or even that fissures within families happen.
After I have looked at each situation to make sure I have done my part
to repair and learn from it, I must let go of the worry and turn to
God to be filled again.

Even though it is an incredible blessing when we do experience love
for and from other people, and we are meant to feed and cherish it,
our love pitcher is not meant to be filled first by other people
pouring their love into us. We are first meant to be filled with God’s
love. And this is the place of abundance from which we love others.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

