http://ymi.today/2017/05/what-is-god-calling-me-to-do/

What is God Calling Me To Do?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Daniel Ryan Day, USA

Daniel is the author of two books: Ten Days Without and Intentional
Christian. He is also the operations manager of a company that
operates a family entertainment center, hotel and restaurant, as well
as a blogger at intentionalchristianity.com. Daniel attempts to live
out intentional Christianity in North Carolina, as a husband, father,
and businessman.



There have been so many times in my life when I didn’t know what to
do. Sometimes, those moments were silly, and getting the answer wrong
didn’t have significant consequences. Like this past Christmas, when I
got way too stressed out trying to figure out the perfect Christmas
present for every person on my gift list. I mean, really. What’s the
worst that could happen?

But there have been other moments when I felt like the decision I
faced was life-changing, and if I chose the wrong road, it could mean
missing out on what I was supposed to do with my life.

I think my culture places a lot of pressure on young adults to figure
out the rest of their lives when they are between the ages of 18 and
24—especially when it relates to choosing an occupation. As a result,
we are left with over-stressed teenagers, degree-less college
students, and young adults (some in their 30s and 40s even) who bounce
from job to job trying to figure out the answer to the question: What
am I supposed to do with my life?

For Christians, there’s a deeper longing within us than just the
desire for a purposeful and fulfilling occupation: Christians are also
searching for God’s will for their lives, because we believe that God
should have something to say about our future. We think the choice of
a job is not fully up to us.

But what if God never tells us what He wants us to do? What are we
supposed to do if God seems eerily silent whenever we ask Him to tell
us what He wants for our lives?

That’s how it was for me. I begged God to tell me His will for my
life. I was willing to do whatever He wanted me to do; I was willing
to move wherever He wanted me to move. But He was quiet—too quiet.
Just like the foreboding scene in a thriller movie that comes right
before someone dies. Maybe I’m going to die. I hope not.



Because I couldn’t find the answers to these questions, I became
frustrated with God. Have you ever been frustrated with God before?
Well, I was. In fact, I got so frustrated that I Googled it—yes, I
actually Googled, “What is God’s will for my life?”

I landed on a webpage with a list of Scripture passages. After reading
the first verse on the list, I nearly threw my computer out of the
window. It was Jeremiah 29:11, which said that God had a plan for my
life.

“I know God has a plan!” I yelled out loud. “The problem is that He
won’t tell me what it is!”

I read the next verse listed, 1 Thessalonians 4:3. “For this is the
will of God, your sanctification.” What?! I had been searching for the
will of God for I-don’t-know-how-long, and it was right here in the
Bible the entire time! It made me wonder what else I’d missed, and
what other callings might exist. I started searching.

Later in that same book, 1 Thessalonians 5:16-18, I found this verse:
“Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all
circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.”
And then I noticed 1 Peter 2:15: “For this is the will of God, that by
doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.”

The more I searched, the more I found, and I soon discovered that the
description of God’s will for our lives was quite long—super long. So
long, in fact, that I started to feel overwhelmed by the call of God.
How could I remember, much less do all of these things?

But then the Holy Spirit reminded me of a promise that Jesus made to
all who would follow Him: “Come to me, all you who are weary and
burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn
from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest
for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light” (Matthew
11:28-30).

During Jesus’ time, a yoke was a wooden bar that was placed on the
neck of an ox, allowing it to pull a heavy load. Often, two oxen were
yoked together so they could pull twice as much.

I don’t know about you, but I don’t know anyone who still uses a yoke
and oxen to pull heavy loads. So I like to think of this verse in
light of the baggage tractors I see at airports. Have you ever looked
out of a plane window—or watched a movie that takes place at an
airport—and noticed the baggage trains? Usually there’s a tractor
followed by four or five baggage cars full of suitcases. Think of a
yoke as one of those tractors. It’s got to be a pretty heavy load,
right?

As I was reading through Scripture and taking note of the many
commandments, expectations, and callings that God had for me, it was
like adding a new suitcase to the baggage train. By the time I was
finished, I had a lot of baggage cars on my train, and they were all
full of the specifics of God’s will for my life. It was a heavy load.

But Jesus said that His yoke—all the responsibilities and expectations
of what it means to follow Him—was supposed to be easy and light. So
if I am burdened by what it means to follow God, something’s wrong.



The truth is that Jesus simplified our calling for us. He said, “You
shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your
soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment.
And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On
these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.” (Matthew
22:37-40)

I think that Jesus not only gave us the greatest commandment, but in
this passage, He also outlined what I call the greatest calling. First
and foremost, you and I are called to walk in relationship with God.
Instead of having to remember a long list of do’s and don’ts—like a
long train of baggage cars—Jesus removed the heavy burden of the law
of Moses from our shoulders and gave us a simple summary of the
purpose of our lives.

What is this purpose? It is simply this: Love God and love others.
That is the greatest calling, and if you remember nothing else, I hope
you remember this truth: God has called you—and that’s His will for
your life—to love Him with all of your heart, soul, mind, and
strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself.



