http://ymi.today/2016/10/why-am-i-striving-to-please-others/

Why Am I Striving to Please Others?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Natalie Hanna Tan, Singapore

I have always been a people pleaser. I know that I can please someone
by doing exactly what they tell me to do.

Growing up in church, I did just that. I was cautious whenever I spoke
to guy friends face-to-face or in text messages, because my leaders
discouraged me from doing so. I stopped posting about “happy”
things—meals and meet-ups with friends—on social media when they told
me it could evoke feelings of jealousy. I refrained from wearing
shorts when they hinted that it could potentially stumble the guys.

Over the years, I tried to follow these “rules”. There was certainly
wisdom in following some of them (and I’m glad I did), but I just
never understood some of the others. I followed them only because I
wanted my leaders to have a good impression of me.

I was trying so hard to please them that eventually, discipleship
meetings filled me with dread. I hated the feeling of being judged and
being made to feel like I’d done something wrong. I always had to be
careful whenever I was in church or around specific leaders. I felt
that they had too many opinions and standards I couldn’t understand.
Going to church and living the Christian life became tiring and
burdensome, as I never could match up to their “perfect” standards.

And yet, when I became a leader myself, I did the same thing to my
younger members. It is the “right” thing to do, I often told them,
even though I didn’t actually agree with the “rules” and was just
keeping and teaching them to gain approval. I wanted my leaders to see
that I was teaching the “right” things and that I was a good leader. I
also began judging friends who were “doing wrong”—according to these
standards—and that strained quite a few of my friendships.

It was only when I attended another church when I went abroad to study
that my perspective on church changed. I saw many devout Christian
friends post happy pictures on Instagram. No one got jealous or upset.
Friends simply “liked” them and celebrated their blessings and
successes. I saw friends wear make-up to church and adorn tops with
different sleeves’ lengths—no one spoke behind their backs or made
them feel like they were “sinning”.  I also saw the beauty of how guys
and girls could be close friends and maintain platonic friendships.
This church no longer felt like a place of “rules”, but a place of
genuine and uncomplicated relationships, free of judgement and
hypocrisy.

A few months into university, a new friend and I had a conversation
about the different convictions and values that churches had. I shared
about the rules I had grown up with and what I honestly thought about
them. What she said struck me hard: “You can’t just follow others’
convictions blindly to make them happy. You can’t live your life for
them.” Those words began my search for my own convictions. All this
while, I had been prioritizing the approval of men above that of God.

Galatians 1:10 says, “Am I now trying to win the approval of human
beings, or of God? Or am I trying to please people? If I were still
trying to please people, I would not be a servant of Christ.” I
realized then that I had made my leaders my god—trying to please and
seek their approval when all I needed was God’s approval. That ought
to have been enough for me.

I headed back to my flat that day, thinking hard about the various
convictions I had. I checked the Bible, searched the Internet, and
asked my parents and close friends back home. Sure, the Bible lists
some things in black-and-white: don’t get drunk, don’t be sexually
immoral, don’t lie or steal . . . but what about things that aren’t
specifically mentioned? The Bible doesn’t say anything about social
media and the sort of things I can or cannot post. Neither does it
list explicit rules about relating with the opposite gender, or the
length of my skirt.

God looks at my heart—the motives behind my actions rather than the
actions themselves. For example, it’s fine to wear a tank top (that
isn’t revealing, of course!) as long as I know that it does not
stumble others and is not a means to attract attention. It’s fine to
post pictures on social media when I know that the number of likes or
followers I have does not reflect my self-worth. And I can certainly
cultivate good and godly friendships with guys which keep healthy
boundaries and do not stumble the other party.

This realization took a whole load of pressure and expectations off my
back. For the first time in many years, I felt free. I saw boundaries
and rules as liberating, and not as constricting.

Having said that, I also recognize that this is not a licence or
excuse for us to live as we please. God has given us His laws in the
Bible to protect us from danger. He has also called us to lead pure
lives (Psalm 24:4) of high standards (Ephesians 5:1-6) because He
Himself is holy and righteous.

For things that aren’t specifically written about in the Bible, we
have the leeway to develop our own personal convictions and
preferences. God gives us freedom to decide what we’re comfortable
with and what we’re not. He has also given us the Holy Spirit to guide
us to discern what is wise and what isn’t. Our convictions can be
shaped from wise counsel, from personal experiences, or from the
environment we live in.

Here are some questions we can ask ourselves as we think about the
various personal convictions we have:



Search the Bible to see what God says about it. If it is clearly
against the Word of God or against God’s character and values . . .
you have your answer.



Ask God to search your heart and reveal any ungodly motives and
intentions you may have (Psalm 139:23-24). Be honest as you reflect on
whether you’re doing (or not doing) something to gain men’s approval
or to fit in.

For instance, I know that drinking isn’t bad—Jesus changed water into
wine and even served wine at the Last Supper. But I’m not comfortable
with drinking when it comes to alcoholic beverages like beer or
liquor, not just because I dislike the taste, but also because of the
negative connotations of drunkenness and wild behavior. After
committing this to God and talking it through with my parents, I
decided that I would not drink. This is a personal conviction and I
don’t judge friends who do.

I’ve come to realize that different cultures have different tolerances
for various things. Take drinking again, for example. In my first year
of university overseas, I couldn’t understand why the church I
attended brought in bottles of wine for our church dinner gatherings.
Initially, I thought that everyone was “sinning” but later on, I
learned that drinking is culture-dependent. In that culture, it is
normal for friends to meet up and drink a glass or two. But if I were
to drink in church back home in Singapore, I would have stumbled those
who may be more conservative on such things.

No culture is wrong or “worse” than the other, they are just
different. And our actions ought to respect the practices of different
cultures.



God does still speak and correct through the wise counsel around us,
and we should consider their advice carefully. While we ought not to
simply take what they say as pure truth, it doesn’t mean we should
completely close our ears to what they have to say. If we disagree
with a “rule”, a good practice is to take time to pray about it and
check with other mature Christians before deciding what our stand is.



Ultimately, our goal in life is to please God in all that we do. Rules
and boundaries can guide us towards that, but God’s word and His
spirit is our ultimate guide. As we walk closely with God, He will
prompt us to do what is right. If we love God, we will naturally
pursue the things that He delights in.

