http://ymi.today/2015/05/every-hero-has-a-story/

Louis Zamperini: Every Hero Has a Story

Author: by Michele Ong

I ran into former Olympic track runner and World War II prisoner of
war (POW) survivor Louis Zamperini in the bargain bin—his book was
going for $5. “An extraordinary true story of courage and survival”,
said the book cover. A review by Vanity Fair magazine called it “One
of the most remarkable survival tales ever recorded. Do yourself a
favor and buy the book”. So I did—I bought Laura Hillenbrand’s book
Unbroken. Besides, I love a good story on courage and hope.

Hillenbrand’s book chronicles the life of Zamperini—his early years as
an unrepentant teenage ratbag; his time as a track star and as a young
lieutenant serving in the Pacific; his imprisonment and torture at a
Japanese POW camp; and how he emerged victorious from it all. The man
was so inspiring that late last year, actress and director Angelina
Jolie made a movie on Zamperini’s life. The Billy Graham Evangelistic
Association filmed a video on Zamperini’s testimony of how God found
him in a hot, stuffy tent, at one of Billy Graham’s evangelistic
meetings that he had reluctantly agreed to attend with wife Cynthia.
What a man!

It is easy to skip through Zamperini’s brokenness, gloss over all the
hardships he endured—the endless torture under enemy hands, his dreams
haunted by former Japanese camp commander Mutsuhiro Watanabe, also
known as Bird—skim through his gambling and alcohol addictions, and
just focus on Zamperini the hero. Zamperini, the redeemed man who
sought out his Japanese captors and forgave them. Zamperini, who went
on to establish a camp for wayward teenagers. Yes, we all love
Zamperini the hero.

But what I loved most about Zamperini’s story was how Jesus met him at
his lowest—when he was a broken mess, a nothing, an alcoholic about to
lose his marriage—but still used him. Zamperini was a big fat zero,
but Jesus turned him into a hero. Zamperini was a big fat zero, but
Jesus turned him into a hero.

Heroes are moulded in the most fiery and trying of circumstances. They
possess the fortitude to press on despite overwhelming challenges, and
are admired for it.

Instrumental to Zamperini’s conversion was Graham, who probably felt
like anything but a successful evangelist when he spent the first few
weeks preaching to a half-empty tent. In Unbroken, Graham is described
as having preached “for many hours a day, seven days a week, he
preached to vast throngs . . . Graham’s weight was dropping, and dark
semicircles shadowed his eyes”. Yet he pushed on, because the “success
of it made him sure that Providence had other wishes”. The result?
Zamperini was one of the many whose lives he touched.

Every hero has a story. And God has an impressive, unbroken record of
turning nobodies into Very Important People. The Bible is full of
heroes who started out as nobodies. David was a humble shepherd,
Gideon was found hiding in a winepress, and Joseph was sold into
slavery.

Maybe your life is hardly looking like that of a superhero. Instead of
living in a mansion with a dedicated butler and cruising in a
Batmobile, you’re in a cramped one-bedroom apartment, with a bank
balance that has seen better days, and overwhelmed by the idea of
life. Hardly hero material.

But just like the Zamperinis and the Grahams and the Bible greats, you
have God. Life can be difficult, but He can make you victorious, more
than a conqueror, an overcomer. You’re precious, you’re redeemed, and
you’re loved by Him.

Because of God, you can achieve beyond your wildest imagination. Give
your life to Him, and trust and obey His word. Be the hero that God
wants you to be.



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



