http://ymi.today/2015/07/learning-to-die-1000-times-every-day/

Learning to Die 1,000 times every day

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Lai, Singapore

Then Jesus said to his disciples, “Whoever wants to be my disciple
must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me.”—Matt
16:24

My left eye hurts and keeps on tearing probably because I’ve been
given the wrong prescription for my spectacles. I’m thirsty from
walking around all day running errands for my dad. The weather is
unbearable—is the sun crazy? My head starts to ache because of the
strain in my left eye, and I just want to complain to the first person
on my WhatsApp contact list. I start the conversation ranting about my
terrible day, but the topic slowly turns towards my friend’s even more
terrible life. I’m so tired and I don’t really want to listen anymore,
but—

die to yourself. I suddenly hear these words in my heart, and realize
I must listen.

When I get home, my dad is in a bad mood—from what, I have no idea—and
makes angry comments about something that happened to him. I ignore
him and settle down in the same room because I know it will just upset
him further if I go straight back to mine. He then asks me to get some
orange juice from the fridge for him. I am still irritated and want to
pretend I didn’t hear him but—

die to yourself. I hear these words in my heart again and realize I
must obey.

My mum gets home really stressed about work, so I prepare dinner for
her and get her some fruit so she can sit down and relax. She keeps
talking but I want to talk about my problems too and not just listen
to her all night. I start speaking, but she clearly hasn’t finished
letting off all her steam, because she isn’t really listening. I feel
undermined and upset but—

die to yourself. These words come up again and I realize I must give
in.

Dying to yourself sounds like a very negative and drastic measure to
take. But as we make everyday decisions to die for others, our hearts
and attitudes will slowly change to reflect the heart of the Savior
who gave His life for us. And as we look back on these everyday
events, we’ll see the faithfulness of God in transforming our hearts
and His relentlessness in pursuing us into His kingdom.

Jesus gave the ultimatum: if we want to be His disciples, we must deny
ourselves, carry our cross and follow Him. What right do we have to be
angry, to withhold forgiveness, to withhold grace and care? We are to
deny these rights if we want to become real disciples of Jesus.

“Anyone who loves their life will lose it, while anyone who hates
their life in this world will keep it for eternal life.”—John 12:25

Every day we will struggle with thousands of these little moments
where we can choose to die to ourselves, or glorify ourselves and
choose our own rights over that of others. Dying to self isn’t so much
a dramatic occasion—it’s a thousand daily deaths to die.

