http://ymi.today/2016/02/when-i-failed-to-plan-for-a-break-up/

When I Failed to Plan for a Break-Up

Author: by Contributor

Written By SJL, Singapore

Most of us make plans for everything, from what we’d like to have for
dinner to what goals we want to achieve in 10 years. But I had always
taken this to the extreme. As a planner and a perfectionist—the worst
combination possible—I planned everything, down to the last detail.

Before going on a holiday, for example, I would spend a lot of time
researching on places to visit and restaurants to dine at. My
itinerary would be penciled down to the smallest detail, and if I
didn’t manage to visit all the places I had planned to go, I would get
very upset.

I did all this because I liked knowing what I was going to do with my
time; I didn’t want to waste any of it. I liked certainty and being
able to control the outcome. I believed wholeheartedly in the saying,
“Fail to plan and you plan to fail.”

But this phrase finally failed me when something that I had been very
sure of in my life fell apart. My boyfriend and I had been dating for
close to nine years, and were very settled and comfortable in the
relationship. Naturally, I had planned for our lives together—right
down to when we should get married, where to get married, how many
children we should have, and how we would spend the rest of our lives
together.

So when the relationship came to an abrupt end, it broke me. What did
I do wrong? God, is this the consequence for my sins? I know there
were things that I hadn’t done well, but isn’t this too harsh a
punishment?

God, however, spoke to me through a sister in Christ, and till this
day, I hold dearly onto the verse she shared with me:

“Now listen, you who say, ‘Today or tomorrow we will go to this or
that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make money.’ Why,
you do not even know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? You
are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. Instead,
you ought to say, ‘If it is the Lord’s will, we will live and do this
or that.’”—James 4:13–15

The verse made me realize how wrong I was to have been so sure of my
plans. I had made my grand plans because I thought I knew what was
best for myself, and hadn’t considered what God thought of them. It
was an outright rejection of God’s rule in my life—I was basically
telling Him, “God, don’t worry. I know what I’m doing. Just watch me
make this work.”

How mistaken I was to assume that all my plans would come to pass, and
that tomorrow would arrive! I was foolish to think that every day was
a given, and that I could continue with my daily routine while working
out my future. That’s not always the case, and I saw this play out in
the life of a close friend of mine. Her successful career and life as
she knew it came to a sudden halt when she was suspected of having a
brain tumor and had to undergo an operation.

Our time on earth is limited. It could be 80 years, 50 years, or just
30 years. The Bible reminds us that we are no more than “a mist that
appears for a little while, and then vanishes”. It made me ask myself:
Knowing this, how am I using my time?

The verse was a wake-up call for me to start using my limited time
wisely—not in the ways I had conceived for my own good, but with the
understanding of what I was made for: the glory of God.

This new perspective also helped me realize that I had been making my
relationship with my boyfriend the focal point of my life. I had used
all my time to chase my own dreams and my “perfect” plan instead of
submitting to God. Now, I asked myself: Was I making God the center of
my life, or fitting Him into the pockets of time or empty slots that
hadn’t been filled up yet? Was I making God the center of my life, or
fitting Him into the pockets of time or empty slots that hadn’t been
filled up yet?

It was a painful lesson for me, but I have learned to acknowledge the
sovereignty of God, trusting that the Master Planner is a much better
planner than I am because He is perfect, and His plan is perfect.
Every day, I now remind myself: “If it is the Lord’s will, we will
live and do this or that.”

God wants to give us the best. May we live each day as if it were our
last, making every minute count for His glory.

“Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of
wisdom.”—Psalm 90:12

