http://ymi.today/2017/11/how-to-get-up-after-your-dreams-are-crushed/

How To Get Up After Your Dreams Are Crushed

Author: by Contributor

Written By Josiah Kennealy, USA

One of the biggest life hopes I had when I was a kid was to play
professional baseball. That dream was shattered when during my
freshman year of high school, I was cut from the high school baseball
team.

This made me feel like a failure in life; I felt so small and I wanted
to hide. My identity was wrapped up in being a baseball player. I
desperately wished my life would be different from the sad reality I
was in.

I’m sure that you can relate to this feeling of emptiness inside you
when you’ve had a dream crushed. Maybe it was a break-up, or a
situation that didn’t turn out as expected. It could be that you
failed a class at school, lost a scholarship, or didn’t get into your
dream university. Or an injury that took away your abilities.

There comes a point where you will want to get up from the knockdown.
For me, this happened when I received encouragement from my parents
and some close friends. I started to redirect my energy towards other
projects: working a part-time job and getting more involved at church.
I ended up working at that part-time job for over eight years, which
really helped build my career and my skills for the future. And the
people I met at church have since become my inner circle of friends.

When you do find some strength to get up, here are three steps that
can change the game for you:



A while ago, I had the opportunity to travel to the Holy Land and walk
where Jesus walked in Israel. I’ll never forget waking up next to the
Sea of Galilee, seeing the foggy mist rise off the water as the sun
came up in the morning, and seeing the rolling foothills. That
morning, I read from Psalm 121:1-2, in which King David wrote: “I look
to the mountains – where does my help come from? My help comes from
the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth.”

Anytime I have a tough meeting, a terrible day, or feel stuck and
helpless, I do one thing: I look up. I pray the prayer of Psalm 121
and recognize that my help comes from the Lord, the maker of heaven
and earth. Even though my circumstances don’t change in that instant,
my perspective does. Looking up gives me help, confidence, and hope of
a brighter future. It heals my heart from heartbreak.

Failure is not final. The creator of futures, the giver of dreams, and
the restorer of promises—our God himself—is where your help is found.
He may restore your dead dream, He may give you a new dream, or He may
simply give you the strength you need to face today. So, look up!

Ever since I returned home from the Holy Land visit, I have had a
small card taped to the ceiling of my office. It says: “The Sky Is The
Limit.” It’s only when you look up, that you begin to realize that the
sky is the limit, and your perspective changes.



What if your situation hasn’t changed?

I’ve found that the next step after looking up is to reach up. God has
extended His hand of help faithfully to generation after generation;
He won’t fail you and turn His back on you. Another psalm that offers
hope and a promise is Psalm 94:14: “For the LORD will not reject his
people; he will never forsake his inheritance.” You are not abandoned
and you are not alone.

So reach out and receive God’s strength. You have not disappointed the
God of grace, mercy, and forgiveness. God may let your good dream die
because he has something different and great in store for you. One way
of looking at your situation as you reach up for help is to ask
yourself the question: “What is God showing me?”

Sometimes, God helps us by providing people who can help. I’m in my
twenties, and I’ve found such help and hope from mentors who are in
their forties, fifties, and sixties. They have offered insight,
advice, a listening ear, clarifying questions, and encouragement.

One of those people who has been a constant encouragement is my high
school youth pastor. Pretty much any time I’ve failed, experienced a
setback, or found myself discouraged, I’ve looked up, and then reached
up by reaching out to my friend, Brent. Time and time again he has
pointed me to Jesus and reminded me of God’s faithfulness in my life.

Who is someone who can help you take the next step? Mentors can come
in the form of teachers, pastors, supervisors, parents, grandparents,
among other wise people. God has placed the right people around you in
your life—reach up to God and others for help!



The biggest life-lesson I learned from getting cut from the high
school baseball team was that there was more to life than athletics.
God can give you a new future. God redeemed my brokenness in a few
ways. First, He gave me a second chance. When I got to college, a
small Division III university in Minnesota, I went for the open
tryouts for the baseball team . . . and I made it!

Beyond one baseball season, God gave me a new dream that was bigger
than just me—and it was selfless. This dream came one summer afternoon
after reading the Bible, praying, and day-dreaming in my parents’
living room while on a break from college. God showed me a motion-
picture in my head of what He wanted me to do with my life: Reaching
college students and young adults for Christ! I could see thousands of
young people on their knees, bowing before the God of heaven and
reaching up to Him in surrender, experiencing personal breakthroughs
in their spiritual lives.

I’ve never felt more alive than when I am working on the dream that
God has given me. Through my daily time with God through His word,
prayer, and worship, I grow in my love for Him and find joy in Him.
Also, every time I meet a college student one-on-one, pray with a
young couple, or speak to an audience of young adults, I see a partial
fulfillment of that dream God gave me. It brings such a smile to my
face and my heart to know that this dream is from God, for God, and
coming true through God!

Just like God gave me a new dream, He may have a new dream for you.
Letting go of past hurts, heartbreaks, and hang-ups can be hard. But
dreaming again starts with looking up to the heavens, where your help
comes from. Then it’s reaching up to God, the lifter of our head, and
to mentors, friends, and family members whom God has placed in our
lives to bring wholeness and healing. Lastly, you need to be brave
enough to dream again.

