http://ymi.today/2017/03/why-we-must-engage-both-mind-and-heart/

Why We Must Engage Both Mind and Heart

Author: by Raphael Zhang

When I was a much younger Christian, I was taught that feelings were
unreliable. I learned that God still loves me even when I don’t feel
like He does—just as a chair would still support my weight even when I
don’t feel like it would.

My feelings did not determine reality, I was reminded, and neither
should they be allowed to dictate my actions. I was told that I didn’t
have to wait until I felt like praying before I started to pray; I was
to pray because it was in line with God’s will.

I’ve tried to keep this in mind, but I’ve found that it can be
challenging to act against my own emotions. There were times when I
willed myself to go to church or cell group, but my heart remained
unwilling or even grudging towards God. Although I was obedient
outwardly, I felt no joy inwardly.

That is how I’ve come to realize this: it’s not healthy to always act
according to my mind without engaging my emotions.

After all, Jesus calls us to love God with all our heart, mind, soul,
and strength (Luke 10:27). Both our heart and mind must be engaged in
loving Him. Just as it isn’t wise to trust the heart without checking
back with the mind, it isn’t healthy to always go with the mind
without engaging the heart, either.

But how are we to do that when the heart and mind sometimes pull us in
different directions? God has taught me a few things that helped me to
see that this doesn’t always have to be an ongoing battle, but the
heart and the mind can instead have an ongoing conversation.



God showed me that while my feelings aren’t always reliable, it
doesn’t mean that I ignore them. Even though my emotions may not
always tell the truth about reality, they do tell me something about
myself.

So if I feel a sense of rejection even when I’m surrounded by loving
family and friends, I won’t immediately think that they are actually
rejecting me. But I would ask myself why I’m feeling this way. I would
seek God’s help to reveal to me any deeper issue that’s causing me to
feel like that. After I get some idea of what might have led to that
feeling of rejection, I’d ask God to comfort and heal me, and to show
me His truths about me and the situation. He might remind me, as He
has in the past, that He has accepted me (Romans 15:7) as His beloved
son (1 John 3:1). And He might show me how I’ve misunderstood the
situation or misperceived the intents of others.

Processing my emotions with God can help me to apply His truths to
myself. If I have been hurt by something, God can bind up my wounds
(Psalm 147:3). If the underlying issue is a sinful attitude, He can
show me where I’ve gone wrong, so that I can confess my sin to Him and
repent of it.

By digging deeper into what our emotions may be trying to tell us, we
can receive God’s comfort or cleansing from sin. Our minds can then
use the truths revealed by God to align our emotions closer to Him and
His truths.



That said, while emotions are important, it doesn’t mean that we need
to be controlled by them. When I was younger, I thought that my
emotions would always have a huge hold over my actions. If I felt like
doing something, it’d take a lot for me to not do it. I believed that
there was nothing I could do to change how I felt.

That is, until one day when God spoke to me through Matthew 6:21:
“where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.” He brought to
my attention that the verse didn’t say, “Where your heart is, there
your treasure will be also”—which would mean what I love is dependent
on how I feel—and if I don’t feel that way, then I can’t make myself
love it.

However, what God was saying in the verse was this: what I
intentionally choose to value will eventually become what my heart
cherishes. This gives me a lot of encouragement because it means that
I don’t have to helplessly succumb to the influence of my emotions!

For example, I didn’t use to like to pray or read the Word. But I
asked the Lord to help me to want to treasure whatever was upon His
heart. So, with God’s help, I began to pray and read the Word as my
way of giving value to these things, regardless of whether I felt like
doing so or not. Over time, my heart began to follow suit. Today, I
love to pray and read the Word much more than I did in the past.
Through this, I learned that what I choose to value with my actions
can affect what I emotionally treasure in my heart.

There’s something my pastor used to say which I’ve come to experience
personally: “When you see as God sees, you will do as God does. But
sometimes, you have to do as God says before you can see as He sees.”

When my heart isn’t aligned with what is upon God’s heart, I’m very
thankful that He has given me a mind that can lead my heart to prefer
His ways. Instead of needing to first feel like I agree with or value
what He says before I can obey Him, God showed me that—regardless of
what I feel—when I choose to do what He says and lay my treasure where
He wants me to, that would help me to see as He sees and so, treasure
what He treasures in my heart.



And ultimately, we can also influence our emotions by thinking the
right thoughts. I’ve heard a quote that goes, “You’re not what you
think you are, but what you think, you are.” Another saying explained
it this way:

“Watch your thoughts, for they become words. Watch your words, for
they become actions. Watch your actions, for they become habits. Watch
your habits, for they become character. Watch your character, for it
becomes your destiny.”

This, to me, underlies how our thoughts play a primary role in
determining the kind of person we become and life we live. This must
be why the Bible instructs us to “take captive every thought to make
it obedient to Christ” (2 Corinthians 10:5).

This helped me to better appreciate why God’s Word exhorts us to think
about whatever is true, noble, right, pure, lovely, admirable,
excellent and praiseworthy (Philippians 4:8)—and nothing is more
excellent and praiseworthy than God and His Word, will, and ways. If
these are what we think about more, our brains will not only retain
them, but these thoughts will also affect our heart, and ultimately,
our life.



In my desire to love God, I want to love Him with both my heart and my
mind. American pastor and theologian Timothy Keller said, “You have a
circumcised heart when what you ought to do and what you want to do
are the same—pleasure and duty are the same.”

On our journey of letting God circumcise our heart more and more, I’m
glad that God has given us ways for our heart and mind to engage each
other so that we can love God fully. He is totally worthy of us loving
Him with our whole being—because He’s the One who first loved us with
all His heart, mind, soul, and strength.



Raphael enjoys reading and writing, and experiences them as means of
connecting with the Word too beautiful for words. He believes there’s
no such thing as having too many books. Having been led by Jehovah-
Rapha to journey out of brokenness toward wholeness, he is passionate
about bringing God’s healing to others, so that the brokenhearted can
become wholehearted in loving God and people with all their heart,
soul, mind, and strength. He’s also crazy about cheeses, but his
greatest love is still Jesus.



