http://ymi.today/2017/04/have-i-taken-god-for-granted/

Have I taken God for granted?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh

After spending a number of years in the media, Leslie finally decided
to move from working with bad news to good news. He believes in the
power of words (especially when they’re funny). He works as an editor
in Our Daily Bread Ministries.

I’m back in court again.

No, not that one. This one is an internal court of conflicting
thoughts and feelings about my faith and my actions. It’s where I have
to face accusations, and it’s where I sometimes try to defend myself.
It’s a court I visit often.

I’m there again because I’ve just read yet another article warning me
not to take God for granted. Yes, one of those pieces filled with
stern warnings:

“Don’t take God for granted.” “Don’t think you can get away with sin
just because salvation is yours to keep.” “Don’t test God’s patience.”

Et cetera, et cetera.

To be honest, I don’t like these warnings. I don’t like them because .
. . I know I’m guilty. I know these warnings are meant for me. I don’t
like them because they inevitably send me on a guilt trip—which I then
try to escape by defending myself:

“Won’t I risk thinking that I need to earn my salvation by trying to
be holy?” “Isn’t God merciful if I repent sincerely?” “Isn’t salvation
mine to keep? If not, then what does grace mean?”

And that’s where the court proceedings begin.



First, the accusations:

You take God for granted. You go ahead and sin and sin and sin,
thinking that it’s okay because you can be forgiven the moment you ask
for forgiveness. You do this because you think salvation is yours, and
that excuses you from trying harder to live a holy life. You think you
can simply fall back on God’s mercy and grace, and get away scot-free.
What about your responsibility to resist temptation and sin? Aren’t
you testing God’s patience? Aren’t you devaluing grace?

I nod, remorseful. “Guilty! I know I’m guilty!”

I’ll be honest and confess: Sometimes (far more often than that, in
fact), I do think that I can get away with sin because God will
forgive me. I take His mercy for granted. I quote Jesus’ instructions
to His disciples to forgive 490 times, and cite the Bible’s
description of God’s endless mercies. And so, at the back of my mind,
I excuse my behavior and proceed with my sin, thinking, “I’ll repent
sincerely later, and it’ll be okay.”

I’m also guilty of not putting a lot of effort into being holy and
living the new life that Jesus has given me through His death and
resurrection. That’s because I hold on to the idea that I shouldn’t
try to change on my own strength. After all, isn’t God the one who
will transform me? And so I proceed as usual, doing what I normally
do. Of course, I do take precautions to avoid I what think are “worse”
sins, but I’ll readily admit that deep inside, I leave it to God to
help me overcome the “small” ones. That makes me guilty of forgetting
that my walk with God is not just one of faith, but a journey of
discipline too.

And finally, I tend to forget that things like my life, my
relationship with God, the open access I have to Him, and my salvation
are privileges. Oh yes, I’m well aware that I don’t deserve them and
that God has given them to me out of His grace. But like I do with
most gifts, I’ve come to see them as mine to keep forever—no matter
what I do. I forget that they remain a privilege and they didn’t come
cheap—it cost Jesus His life, and God, His Son. I fail to treasure
these gifts and make the most out of them.

“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of
heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in
heaven.”—Matthew 7:21



But then the little defense lawyer inside me stands up and responds:

God’s grace and mercy are boundless. Don’t make the mistake of being
legalistic about your faith. Yes, you must seek to live a holy life.
But you shouldn’t doubt your salvation whenever you fail (for you
will, inevitably). If you keep going back to the fundamentals, you’ll
never be able to step forward in your faith. You’ll end up hobbling
your spiritual growth. You need to accept God’s forgiveness, and
forgive yourself. You need to move on.

I raise my head, hoping that he’s right. “Really? Am I not guilty
after all?”

Isn’t it true? If I were to doubt God’s forgiveness even after
confessing and repenting, then I would be doubting His character as a
merciful and forgiving God, His promise to forgive, and the
effectiveness of His Son’s sacrifice on the cross. Of course, I need
to ensure that I am sincere in my confession and repentance. But if I
keep holding on to my shame and guilt, wouldn’t I be belittling Jesus’
sacrifice and the power of the cross? Don’t I need to move on, relying
on the fact of God’s unconditional love and mercy?

Besides, if I focus too much on trying to be holy and being a “good”
Christian, I may fall into the trap of legalism. Now, that would be
cheapening grace. I may forget that I am saved by grace, not by any
works I can do. Oh yes, I am called to put aside my old self and my
old sinful habits. But I shouldn’t confuse that with trying to win
God’s favor by being good. Only He can make me holy and righteous in
His sight. What I need to do is to submit to His transformation.

And, finally, my favorite defense: There’s no doubt that I’m flawed
and far from perfect. And I still struggle with sin and holiness. But
the very fact that I still battle with guilt and feelings of
inadequacy shows that I don’t take God for granted; it shows that my
conscience is still very much alive—kept alive by the Holy Spirit in
me. If I was really guilty of taking God for granted, then I wouldn’t
even think twice about going ahead with my sins, nor about whether I
need to live in a more holy manner, right? In fact, I won’t even
wonder whether I’m taking Him for granted. So the very fact that I’m
worried about taking God for granted . . . shows that I’m not. You
know what I mean!

Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ
Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit who gives
life has set you free from the law of sin and death.—Romans 8:1-2



I hate to leave it hanging, but the answer is . . . I can’t tell you
for sure. Only the judge can decide, and in this court, God is the
judge. Only He can determine whether or not I’m guilty of taking Him
for granted.

To be honest, I haven’t heard a clear voice telling me the final
judgment. But I personally believe that it is . . . BOTH.
Guilty—because I have taken God for granted. And not guilty—because He
is always ready to forgive me, and Christ’s death has paid for my sin.
It’s almost as if God is saying:

Yes, sometimes you ARE guilty of taking Me for granted. That’s why I
send you reminders and warnings, and My Spirit fills your heart with
remorse. But I don’t want you to just feel guilty; I want you to do
something about it. And I want you to repent and move on, so that you
become NOT guilty. And that’s why I send you comfort and assurance,
too. I want you to know that when you truly confess and repent, it
puts you on the right track.

So what does that mean for me, the accused? It means that I’m going to
have a constant struggle with guilt. And it means that I’m going to be
coming back to this court, again and again, to hear the same
accusations and defenses.

But maybe that’s the whole point. A friend once told me something that
has stuck in my mind, and it is simply this: Christianity is a
struggle.

If we stop struggling, then something’s wrong. Yes, we shouldn’t allow
doubt to whittle away at our faith until nothing’s left. But we also
need to keep checking ourselves to make sure we’re not becoming
complacent in our walk with God. The constant questioning, reviewing,
and wrestling with spiritual issues—all these show our faith is alive.

Perhaps that’s why Paul urged believers to present themselves to God
as a “living sacrifice” (Romans 12:1)—the thing about a living
sacrifice, you see, is that it can crawl away. Every day and every
moment, we face the temptation to crawl away from the altar and to
seek our own desires and ways; it takes a conscious effort to stay
there. But it’s a struggle that I believe God appreciates.

So now I’m out of court. I’m guilty, but because of Jesus, I’m not
guilty. Guess I’ll be back again soon.

Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith; test
yourselves. Do you not realize that Christ Jesus is in you—unless, of
course, you fail the test?  And I trust that you will discover that we
have not failed the test.—2 Corinthians 13:5



