http://ymi.today/2016/09/why-we-may-all-be-guilty-of-racism/

Why We May All be Guilty of Racism

Author: by Contributor

Written By Michael Van Dyke

Michael is a Professor of English and teaches courses in American
literature, writing and philosophy. He is also an elder at Mars Hill
Bible Church and he and his wife Beth have two children, Caleb and
Emma. In his spare time, Michael likes to paint, lift weights, and
watch Michigan State basketball.



Last week, a friend of our family was walking with his wife in the
Austin neighborhood of Chicago when he was attacked by a gang of young
men and badly beaten. He ended up spending the night in the hospital
with several cracked bones in his face and other assorted cuts and
bruises. His wife, though unhurt, was forced to watch as her
husband—for all she knew— was being beaten to death. Of course, she
will likely be haunted by that image for the rest of her life.

Austin is known for being one of the most gang- and drug-ridden
neighborhoods in the city of Chicago, US. Our friend and his wife were
walking down the sidewalk that evening because they had felt called
several years ago to pastor a church there—despite the many risks that
were involved. Almost all of the residents of Austin are black and
poor, whereas our friend is white and from a middle-class background.
As he says on the church’s website, he ministers there because he
believes every single person has equal value in the eyes of God, and
that every person has something to contribute to the good of humanity.

He doesn’t say it in a condescending or patronizing way. He simply
says it out of a recognition that society as a whole has written off
the people of Austin. And he says it because he knows that God not
only redeems, but also restores and renovates lives.



Some people might think that our friend is a fool to squander all of
his talents, education, and advantages on a neighborhood that is full
of drug houses, gangs, and violent crime. Some might even say that the
residents of Austin are not worth his time and commitment, since their
problems are certainly the result of their own choices (i.e., moral
failings).

But people who think such things probably don’t know about the *white
flight from Austin in the late 1960s that led to decades of
disinvestment by the city. They probably don’t understand how the
judicial system has created cycles of poverty through police
crackdowns on petty crimes, which have led to long prison sentences
and fatherless families. And it is unlikely that they know how
impossible it is for a black man with a felony conviction to get a
decent job that will support a wife and children.

This ignorance, I would contend, is one big reason why the cycle
continues.

Hardly any white people in America—especially white Christian
people—will admit to being racists. We will usually point out that we
have black friends (often of their same socio-economic status); and we
will vehemently assert that we have never discriminated against
anybody. In fact, many of us have probably given money to **inner-city
ministries. However, the majority of us have also arranged our lives
so that we don’t have to think very often about the daunting
challenges facing hundreds of black communities across America. And
most of us will not take a moment to wonder why there are still “black
communities” and “white communities” in America, when we supposedly
have laws against segregation.



To be sure, one has to admit that there have been many improvements in
the opportunities afforded black Americans since the Civil Rights
movement. We do have a black president, for instance. It’s also a good
thing that not too many places remain where somebody can get away with
making an overtly racist comment, or with using the “n-word”.

Yet black men, who make up about six per cent of the American
population, still constitute about 80 per cent of the prison
population, and most of them are serving longer sentences for the
types of non-violent drug crimes that are just as prevalent among
whites. However, since most whites are ignorant of real reasons for
these discrepancies, we think that justice is being done, when in fact
exactly the opposite is the case.

I would like to think that if more white Christians actually knew the
facts and the histories, we would do something. Because if we do know
the facts and still aren’t doing anything, I don’t know how to explain
that except by pointing to a sort of unconscious racism, combined
perhaps with a sense that the problems are just too overwhelming.



This is why I believe that racism is not so much a sin of commission
in America anymore, that is, a sin that people commit in some sort of
obvious way. Rather, it is mainly a sin of omission, or a sin that
consists in things that are not done. This also means that it is a sin
which is often overlooked in our churches.

In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point
of shedding your own blood. (Hebrews 12:4)

Undoubtedly, Christians are very good at being nice to people on a
face-to-face basis. Most of us are willing to give others the shirts
off our backs, no matter what their race or background, if they tell
us that they need them. We are also willing to include people in our
churches or organizations who are different from us if they happen to
seek us out or come across our paths. But rarely will white Christians
(and I’m talking to myself here) make an effort to seek out black
populations who are segregated from us, and who may not talk or act
like us, and who may even be a little bit dangerous.

Furthermore, we will rarely immerse ourselves in justice movements
that seek to redress generations of unfair treatment, judicial
prejudice, and economic disinvestment. Instead, we let the courts and
judicial system handle everything, which excuses us from the
obligation to seek peace (shalom) and pursue justice and true equity,
as the prophets have commanded us. To do so would also be risky, since
it would take us into waters that we are not accustomed to navigating.

Being a follower of Christ in such ways may even cost us our lives.



In Galatians, Paul writes that for Christians “there is neither Jew
nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, neither male nor female, for you
are all one in Christ Jesus.” What he means is that the gospel
transcends all of the social divisions constructed by our prejudices
and cultural traditions, and that none of these should be barriers to
full Christian fellowship.

I sometimes wonder if churches have presented salvation as a purely
spiritual event because this is the only area where their
congregations actually seem to need salvation. All of their other
needs are met, and they are not oppressed in any way. But when the
prophets and Jesus himself taught about salvation and the kingdom of
God, they spoke more often about justice, healing, restoration,
recovery, and reconciliation than they did about a purely spiritual
transaction between the individual and God.

This thought helps me to explain why our friend went to Austin several
years ago, and why he will probably continue to live there. For if you
see your fellow human beings not with the eyes of the surrounding
culture, but with the eyes of Christ, their needs will suddenly strike
you as being nearly as important as the needs of your own family.

In fact, you might be willing to sacrifice safety, comfort, and
material resources to see those needs met—even if they are so large
and overwhelming that everyone else has given up on them.  Indeed, the
hope of Christ will compel you.





*White-flight refers to the occurrence where white people move out of
a city to suburbs as people of other races move in.

**Inner-city ministries focus on African-American and Latino
populations.

