http://ymi.today/2015/12/he-knows-if-youve-been-knotty-or-nice/

He Knows If You’ve been Knotty or Nice

Author: by Joanna Hor

“It can’t be done,” my friend said matter-of-factly.

We were in the process of decorating our very own “Christmas
tree”—made up of stacked Starbucks paper cups—and wanted to wrap
glittery garlands around it. But they were, unfortunately, entangled
in one gigantic knot.

I had volunteered to untangle the garlands just as she was about to
cut them. Having tried—in vain—to untangle the knots the day before,
she believed that it would be more practical to simply snip the
garlands apart at the knots and use the shortened sections.

But her insistence that the garlands couldn’t be salvaged had made me
even more determined. “You just need to set your mind to it,” I told
her confidently. “It can be done, even if it takes me a while—like two
years,” I added in jest. She looked half-convinced but wisely decided
not to tangle with me.

As I surveyed the knotty mess in my hands, I realized it was a lot
more complicated than I had originally thought. Good job for getting
yourself into this, I thought. There were two Christmas garlands
entangled and the knots looked fairly complicated. It didn’t help that
both garlands were of the same color: gold.

I decided to start with the biggest, most stubborn of knots, loosening
it and trying as much as I could to not introduce more knots. But
after looping the strings one over the other for a good 10 minutes, I
was convinced that my efforts had come to naught; there had to be a
better method. Just like life, I thought, one look at all our problems
and we’re overwhelmed. It’s so easy to give up.

A thought came to mind: What about starting at one end and working
from there? Thankfully, there were at least two ends in sight. I
picked one up and started weaving it in and out of the tangled knots.
Why is untangling a mess in life always so tedious?

A good 20 minutes went by. Progress was slow but visible—I could see
more and more of the loose, untangled end. There you go—surrender your
problems to God, and He’ll give you the patience, perseverance, and
strength to sort them out, bit by bit, one at a time.

Guess I spoke too soon. Just as I was about to give myself a pat on
the pack, I hit a really stubborn knot. Life always has to throw us
surprises when things are going well, doesn’t it?

I had no choice but to abandon that end of the garland and start at
the other end. Applying the same technique, I weaved the string in and
out, over and over again. Some 35 minutes passed: the huge knot in the
center appeared to be shrinking. Wow, imagine the amount of effort and
patience God puts in to untangle the mess in our life. Wow, imagine
the amount of effort and patience God puts in to untangle the mess in
our life.

For some reason, the last part was the trickiest and most difficult to
untie. My patience was wearing thin but I refused to give up. I kept
at it and finally, after a good 45 minutes, both strings came apart.

“Yes!” I exclaimed, waving the individual garlands victoriously. My
friend’s eyes widened. “How did you do it?” She asked incredulously.
Proudly, I explained how I had started with the ends and weaved them
in and out of the small knots before proceeding to the main knot. The
garlands will probably get tangled again someday, just like our
problems. But we can trust God with them. By His grace, we’ll be able
to straighten out our lives again.

“You just have to start small,” I said.

Photo credit: Cayusa via Foter.com / CC BY-NC



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



