http://ymi.today/2017/03/will-you-ship-others/

Will You Ship Others?

Author: by Amy Ji

Photo taken by Blake Wisz

The week before Valentine’s Day, my students taught me a new word,
“ship”. According to them, to “ship” means to support or be in favor
of two people getting together. For example, “I ship Mr. A and Ms. B
together” would mean, “I hope Mr. A and Ms. B would be in a
relationship”.

Curious, I probed further and asked them what “shippers” did. They
proceeded to show me through Instagram how shippers would create “ship
names”, usually a combination of the names of both parties, as well as
edit “ship photos”, capturing the couples in matching outfits,
gestures, etc.

They also showed me a photo of Korean popstar Rain and his wife Kim
Tae Hee, a popular Korean actress, leaving for their honeymoon. Some
of the students went on to say that married couples didn’t need to be
“shipped”, while others argued that one could ship whoever he or she
liked, regardless of marital status.

In my own journey with my husband—first as friends, then as a couple,
and eventually as spouses—I cannot help but disagree with the former
view.

When we were teenagers, we led a cell group together. At first, our
friends teased us and cajoled us to get together. As we grew older, we
realized how similar we were—from the way we counselled our cell
members to the way we led Bible study. Needless to say, we ended up
getting together.

Throughout our relationship, our friends were constantly there; they
witnessed our quarrels and cheered us on. On our wedding day, they
lovingly decorated the church, filling the place with a joy and
simplicity so aligned to both our personalities. Today, we’ve also
become their “shippers” as they involve us in their own journey
towards marriage or their struggles as singles; we rejoice with those
getting married, mourn alongside those who are walking out of broken
relationships, and lend a listening ear as well as reach out to those
who are single.

The “shippers” we’ve come to value the most are those who journeyed
with us and gave us counsel. Whether single or married themselves,
they spent hours with us during pre-marital counselling, were
vulnerable, and shared their lives honesty and openly. Hearing how
they resolved their differences, or even how they could serve God
together in spite of challenges, encouraged and inspired us to do the
same when we had our own doubts and challenges.

They brought us out to coffee and prayed for us—as individuals then,
and as one entity now. They were always a phone call away when we got
into intense arguments; they cried with us, listened to us, and most
importantly, shared godly counsel with us. These precious ones
constantly pointed us back to the creator of marriage, the God of
love. And they reminded us that the sole purpose of marriage—in fact
of any Christian—was to reflect His glory.

More than any other point in the relationship timeline, marriage would
require “shippers” the most. More than any other point in the
relationship timeline, marriage would require “shippers” the most. I
say this not in pride, but in utter humility and out of sheer need.
Because I know how hard it is to be married and more so, to stay
married. Sure, there are many wonderful things about being married,
but the reality doesn’t reflect this truth so well. We are confronted
with broken relationships on all sides. A friend just filed for
divorce last month and another has been living separately from her
husband and son for two years now. I myself come from a broken family
and will always remember the confusion, hurt and betrayal my brother
and I felt as children when our parents got divorced.

The wedding lasts but a day, but marriage is for a lifetime. I think a
large part of the latter can only be possible if married couples have
support from their community—from like-minded Christian individuals,
couples, parents, and others who will be a part of their lives and
come into their homes. At every stage of our relationship, we have
been blessed and encouraged by the “shippers” that came alongside and
today, continue to journey with us.

Will you “ship” others?



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



