http://ymi.today/2017/06/behind-happy-social-media-posts/

Behind Happy Social Media Posts

Author: by Contributor

Written By M. Tiong, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

Whenever I scroll through Facebook or microblogging site Weibo, I will
always look with envy at the lovely photos of my friends’ travelling
escapades, their new branded products, and delicious food that they
enjoy. Based on these photos, I have to conclude that their lives must
be going swimmingly. And I can’t help but wonder: Why is my life so
boring compared with theirs?

One day, however, a friend who frequently shares awe-inspiring
photographs told me that she was in fact very stressed. Life, she
said, had little meaning. It was only when I heard this, that I began
to realize that the people I envied were no happier than I was. It led
me to ask: “Are people really as happy as their social media posts
suggest?”

Why does it seem that none of us are ever happy? The Bible notes that
man will never be satisfied nor content with what we have; we will
always pine for something better. “Death and Destruction are never
satisfied, and neither are human eyes,” says Proverbs 27:20. King
Solomon, the wealthy and author of Ecclesiastes, had everything, yet
understood this dissatisfaction. He said, “Yet when I surveyed all
that my hands had done and what I had toiled to achieve, everything
was meaningless, a chasing after the wind; nothing was gained under
the sun” (Ecclesiastes 2:11).

Why is this so? Perhaps it’s because our possessions cannot truly fill
the emptiness in our hearts. Although we constantly seek to fill that
void with different things—be it wealth, love, fame, or other people’s
admiration—we will never find true contentment in them.

It is not necessarily wrong to desire achievements, success, and
affirmation. However, it is more important to realize that these
cannot be a measure of our worth. They do not have real substance,
because they will not last.

Our fulfilment, worth, and meaning of life must come from God. Only
our Creator God can fill the void in us, His created beings, because
only He knows what we truly need. Only our Creator God can fill the
void in us, His created beings, because only He knows what we truly
need.

So we do not need to envy what others have. Proverbs 14:30 says: “A
heart at peace gives life to the body, but envy rots the bones.” And
Psalm 16:11 says, “You make known to me the path of life; you will
fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your
right hand.”

I thank God for reminding me about the things I ought to be paying
attention to—the needs of people around me, obeying His will, and
living a life that pleases Him. I pray that our lives will no longer
revolve around how frequently we travel, how much we spend on branded
goods, or how much our food costs. Rather, may our focus be on God.

May we all find and share the true joy that comes from being in God’s
presence. And may we become followers of Christ who seek to please
God.

