http://ymi.today/2015/03/leaving-legacies-to-live-by/

Leaving Legacies to Live By

Author: by Joanna Hor

As I scanned the sea of impassive faces on the train on the way to
work this morning, it struck me that while nothing looked out of the
ordinary, things were no longer the same for my country of Singapore.
A week ago, our founding father, Mr Lee Kuan Yew, had passed away at
the age of 91.

The tears shed, queues formed and tributes poured out over the past
week was an unprecedented display by Singaporeans. We cried and
grieved together in solidarity as we mourned the passing of the man
who once cried for our nation 50 years ago. Here was a man who lived
and breathed everything Singapore, building up a nation of mudflats
into a bustling metropolis, and moving our status from third world to
first world in just one generation. Whether we knew him personally or
not, the legacy that he left was undeniable. His death affected many
of us deeply.

While I had never met Mr Lee in person, tears came to my eyes as I
watched his cortege travel past onlookers who braved the torrential
rain and shouted his name during the funeral procession, and listened
to the eulogies at the state funeral. As his son, Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong, had described it, it was as if the light that had guided
us all these years had been extinguished. Perhaps, behind the poker
faces of some of my fellow commuters this morning, there was sorrow,
intermingled with the realization that there would never be another
one like Mr Lee Kuan Yew.

Yet, amid the pain of loss and grief, I felt a sense of optimism and
hope. One era had passed, but a new chapter had begun. Mr Lee had
built a strong nation, and it was the current generation’s
responsibility not just to acknowledge his legacy, but to keep it
alive and build on it to make Singapore an even better home. For those
of us who have been privileged enough to live in the time of this
great man, I believe the onus is on us to share with the next
generation stories about Mr Lee and what he did for the country. For
those of us who belong to the generation that has never experienced
the atrocities of war, perhaps we could heed calls to never take peace
and stability for granted, and to keep living out the values he stood
for. It seems that the best way to remember his death is to share and
live out his life’s legacy. It seems that the best way to remember his
death is to share and live out his life’s legacy.

And perhaps this attitude of remembrance is befitting as we
commemorate the death of another leader in just a few days—Jesus
Christ, the one who changed the course of history more than 2000 years
ago, when He came into this world as a man. Jesus gave His life to
serve His people, to the extent of dying on the cross for our sins
even though we were completely undeserving.

The epitaph for Sir Christopher Wren, architect of London’s St Paul’s
Cathedral, says: “If you seek his monument, look around you.”
Likewise, if we seek Christ’s monument, we only need to look around
us. As Romans 1:20 says, “For since the creation of the world God’s
invisible qualities—his eternal power and divine nature—have been
clearly seen, being understood from what has been made, so that people
are without excuse” (Romans 1:20).

On this Good Friday, I want to continue Jesus’ legacy—to take time to
remember all that He had done, tell others His life story, and live
out His teachings in my life.





Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



