http://ymi.today/2015/06/craving-a-fathers-love/

Craving A Father’s Love

Author: by Contributor

Written By J. Leng, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

I always feel a tinge of envy whenever I see a doting father chatting
and laughing with his child. I have never had such happy
memories. When I was 11 years old, my parents divorced after my father
had an affair. Mum told us that Dad had given up custody of us as he
did not like kids. When he remarried, he did not have any children.

As a result, my sister and I were brought up by our mother. Apart from
asking my father for our living allowances every so often, our contact
with him was minimal. Even when he asked about us, it was simply for
formality’s sake. He rarely took us out for dinner or spent time with
us. In our growing up years, we never really got the chance to
experience the so-called “father’s love”. In our growing up years, we
never really got the chance to experience the so-called “father’s
love”.

After my parents divorced, I could sense my mum’s contempt and spite
towards my father, especially when she mentioned him. She would often
tell my sister and me not to find someone like my father.

Over the years, because of what she said and through my own
interaction with my father, I came to feel the same way about him—he
shunned responsibility and would only bear it if he did not have a
choice.

Gradually, I also started to believe that all men in general were not
reliable and could not be trusted. Like my mum, I looked down on my
father.

When I was in high school, I remember asking my father to help me move
out of my dormitory during the school holidays. He failed to turn up.
In the end, I had no choice but to do it myself, with the help of
others.

When I reached university level, my father said he could not afford to
cover the full cost of my tuition fees and told me to find my own
solution. I was very disappointed with him. It was the most difficult
time of my life—I was alone in a foreign land, lonely and helpless.

Faced with the pressure of not being able to pay for my fees, I went
into depression. At the time, I felt that having a father or not made
no difference. I had to take on several part-time jobs to pay for my
living expenses. All the while, I would blame my dad for my
troubles. But it was this very time, that I came to know Jesus and
received His gift of salvation.

Matthew 11:28 says: “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,
and I will give you rest.” And in Deuteronomy 31:8, “The LORD himself
goes before you and will be with you; he will never leave you nor
forsake you.”

These two verses gave me great comfort. God made me realize that I did
not need to bear the burden on my own. I could entrust all my worries
and fears to the Lord, who is trustworthy. Perhaps, I thought, I could
even thank my father for “leading” me to believe in the Lord.

After I became a Christian, I began learning how to build a
relationship with God, and gradually came to comprehend the Heavenly
Father’s amazing love. Although one of my greatest regrets is not
being able to experience a father’s love, I now have the greatest form
of fatherly love—the love of my Heavenly Father.

At the same time, through reading the Bible and prayer, I’ve also come
to understand God’s will for me in Matthew 6:15: “But if you do not
forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins.”

To be honest, forgiving my dad for hurting me is not an easy task. But
every day, I ask God to help me to understand and forgive my father.
After all, God wants us to be reconciled not only to Him, but to
others as well.



