http://ymi.today/2017/06/should-i-download-a-dating-app/

Should I Download A Dating App?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Krysti Wilkinson, USA

I still remember the day my best friend and I were hanging out,
complaining about dating and boys and life in general, when we decided
we were going to do it: download a dating app.

We did it at the same time, clicking through the questions and
giggling as we sifted through an unknown world, trying to figure out
what to put in our profiles and what pictures to use. How old a guy am
I willing to date? How young? Do I put something about Jesus in my
profile, or is clicking “Christian” enough?

The first time I tried online dating, I found it to be incredibly
liberating.

I felt like I was taking control of my own dating life—putting myself
out there instead of just sitting around waiting for a boy to ask me
out. It also seemed to open up a whole world of singles that I didn’t
know existed. As someone who hung out with a lot of couples and a lot
of girls, I almost forgot there were single men in existence. It was a
nice reminder.

And then it got old quickly—sifting through profiles of people I had
no interest in, hoping that one of the few matches would actually
message me, hoping that of those who did message me, they’d be
somewhat normal, actually be a real Christian, and able to carry a
conversation. I spoke to a few. Then we met up. But things went
nowhere. Again and again and again.

I’ve gone on and off dating apps—deleting them, re-downloading them,
re-deleting them, trying out new ones. Sometimes, I really enjoy the
freedom they bring and the way they’ve re-invented dating. Sometimes,
the last thing I want to do is message a stranger and wonder what the
world is coming to. It’s hit or miss, for me.

Based on the many, many conversations I’ve had about online dating
with friends, there are many different views on it. But there’s one
thing that remains the same: All single millennials stress over it.
“Are dating apps okay?” “Tinder?!” “Coffee Meets Bagel?” “Whaaaaat?”

Yet, when it comes to church, online dating seems like something that
no one wants to discuss in the open.

These days, when I ask a couple how they met, I can tell when their
reply is going to be a dating app—they pause, smile at the floor, then
at each other, then lower their voices and respond with “ . . . we met
online.” Considering the number of relationships that start online
these days, people still seem pretty embarrassed to admit they are
part of the 35 percent. For Christians, it’s even worse—it seems like
we should be ashamed for not dating only within church and not
trusting God to drop our soul mates onto our porch, or for turning to
something as “worldly” or “superficial” as a dating app.

But here’s my take: Dating apps are nothing to be embarrassed of.

Would I smile at a cute guy in a coffee shop or bar? Would I chat with
him for a bit before considering giving him my number? Yes. So why is
this seen as so different when basically, I’m doing the same thing
through an app on my phone? I’m big on pushing back against the
stereotypes of online dating, so I try to be as open and candid as
possible about it: I’ve been on some apps, I’m not on them right now,
I’ll probably be back on them at some point. I will gladly tell anyone
that if the subject of dating apps comes up, because it’s no secret to
hide behind! We need to stop treating dating apps like a dirty little
secret. Being single and ready to mingle is nothing to be ashamed
of—and neither is being on Christian Mingle.

So, as Christians, are dating apps okay? Yes. As “okay” as dating is.
Working in a youth ministry, I’ve had many kids constantly ask if
dating as a teenager is okay, how they would know when they’re ready
to date, and how to go about Christian dating? I’ve given everyone the
same reply: when you know who you are and you know what you’re looking
for. That takes an incredible amount of maturity—which some people
have at 16 and other people are still missing at 26.

When you know who you are, it’s pretty easy to know what matters to
you, what you aren’t interested in, and what values you aren’t going
to back down on. When you know what you’re looking for, you aren’t
going to waste anyone’s time—yours or the other person’s—in a
relationship going nowhere. When you know what you’re looking for, you
can say no to things or people whom you see no future with. When you
know what you’re looking for, you don’t get emotionally invested in
relationships that are unhealthy. So if you’re dating in a healthy
way, there is nothing wrong with dating apps in my book.

Here’s what I will say:

Are you looking for a serious relationship or a date for Friday night?
Are you looking to actually connect with another human being or are
you looking for someone to entertain you? If you don’t know your
intention going in, just like in dating, you’re probably going to end
up disillusioned and frustrated. Dating apps aren’t a cure for
loneliness or a guarantee of a relationship—if you’re turning to apps
to fill voids that only God or true Christian community can fill, you
aren’t going to end up very happy.



Here’s the biggest problem I always see people running into: dating
through the app. Dating apps aren’t ways to date people, they are ways
to meet people. You cannot actually get to know a real human—and they
can’t actually get to know you—through a screen. Be intentional about
how you’re actually using these apps. Are you just browsing to see
pictures of various single people in your area, or to date various
people in your area? Are you messaging people just to message them for
the night, or are you messaging them to hopefully meet up next week?



Technology is really wonderful, but sadly, the more removed we are
from real interaction with others, the more removed we feel from the
emotions of others. Remember there is a real living person on the
other side of the phone—with real thoughts and feelings and emotions.
So don’t say things in a message that you would never say in person.
Don’t agree to meet up with someone and not show up. And don’t message
someone incessantly, toying with their emotions, because you’re home
alone and bored one night, and have no intention of talking to them
the next day.



There’s nothing wrong with using the Internet to help us meet
someone—it all depends on how you go about it. There’s nothing to be
ashamed about. The way you meet someone has no direct effect on how
successful the relationships is going to be; it’s how you go about the
relationship that will make the difference.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

