http://ymi.today/2017/02/5-ways-to-become-the-most-eligible-
bachelorette/

5 Ways to Become the Most Eligible Bachelorette

Author: by Contributor

Written By Chia Poh Fang

Poh Fang never dreamed of being in a language-related profession;
chemistry was her first love. The turning point came when she received
Jesus as her Savior as a 15-year-old and expressed to Him that she
would like to create books that touch lives. She serves with Our Daily
Bread Ministries in the Singapore office as Managing Editor.

Yes, you can congratulate me. I am finally getting married.

The wedding will be held in a church, and will be followed by a
fabulous lunch reception. And nope, we won’t be having a wedding
banquet. My parents are so happy that I am finally settling down that
they will concede to any arrangement I want. My father even said, “I’m
okay even if you just publish the wedding announcement in the papers!”
I am tempted to do just that, but for the sake of my non-Christians
relatives and friends, as well as others who are looking for a reason
to purchase nice, new clothing—you know who you are—I will hold a
church wedding and pray that God will touch their hearts as they
witness my holy matrimony.

And of course, I would be too busy, and probably too emotional and
nervous, to hold a decent conversation with you on the wedding day. So
I would be arranging small group gatherings with close friends
following that so that we can laugh, talk, and simply, have a great
time together . . .

I have dreamed about my perfect wedding numerous times, and this is
just one of the many musings. They occur more during the seasons of
Chinese New Year and Valentine’s Day. Sometimes, when watching a nice
rom-com, I’ll start fantasizing too.

Now you’re probably wondering if I have a boyfriend. Nope. Though I
have received a few love letters in the past, I’ve never dated anyone.
And I probably missed some opportunities too—because I was too dense
to recognize the guy’s interest or because I was too preoccupied with
my pursuit then to make time for the relationship to blossom.

But anything can happen. You’d never know what tomorrow may bring,
right?

Whoa, such optimism, you may say. Aren’t all the good guys attached or
happily married once you’ve passed a certain age? And yes, I’ve passed
that age. Well, the Bible contains numerous examples of how some
people’s lives took extraordinary turns as they were doing ordinary
things.

Isaac was having his devotional time in the fields, when he looked up
and saw his future wife (Genesis 24:63). Ruth was looking for a place
where she could work in order to bring bread to the table, when she
walked into Boaz’ field (Ruth 2:3-11). Subsequently, Boaz her boss
becomes Boaz her man.

So, even though you can’t envisage any change to your current status
now, don’t despair. Today does not mean forever. Anything can happen.

Meanwhile, as you wait, there’s plenty you can do. Here’s a list of
what I’m personally doing. You may want to try them too.

The book of Proverbs contains several wise sayings about how
insufferable it would be to live with a quarrelsome wife—and I believe
it applies to a grumpy husband too (Proverbs 21:19, 25:24). Will you
be “worth more than rubies” (Proverbs 31:10) or will you be like “the
dripping of a leaky roof in a rainstorm” (27:15)? It has been said:
Who you will be is who you are becoming. So measure your character
growth every once in a while. Are you more gracious or critical than
last year?

If you want to enjoy life—married or single—you need to be healthy. So
eat well and exercise regularly. Many chronic illnesses such as
diabetes are due to poor diet and lack of exercise. And if you wish to
start a family in future, you would definitely need the health and
energy to run after your children and to manage a household! Live a
healthy lifestyle, so that you won’t become a burden to your future
spouse (if you get married) or to your family and friends (if you
remain single).

It has often been said that marriage is not just between two
people—you marry into each other’s family too. So learn to relate to
children, teenagers and seniors. You don’t have to learn how to be a
parent only after you have kids of your own. The church presents many
opportunities for us to learn these precious lessons. For example, you
can offer to help a young mother babysit her toddler for a few hours,
or volunteer your time in the youth or elderly ministry. The Bible
exhorts, “As we have opportunity, let us do good to all people,
especially to those who belong to the family of believers.” (Galatians
6:10, emphasis mine)

Be the best you can be in your studies or at work. Sometimes, I wonder
how my life would pan out had I been married. Knowing my nature and
inclination, I would probably become a housewife and do part-time
work. But now as a single, I can travel overseas whenever my job
requires—without feeling guilty for neglecting some important duties
at home—and use my after office hours for self-improvement activities.

If a friend wants to introduce you to someone, gamely take up the
offer. Similarly, there’s nothing wrong with exploring Christian
dating sites. You are not signing your life away. Just remember to
exercise wisdom. Invite your friends and family into the process. Get
their opinions; consider their cautions, and receive their
blessings—and even critiques. It doesn’t mean that you must marry
whomever you meet. It’s okay to part amicably if things don’t work
out. In the meantime, continue to build strong relationships with
friends and family. There may come a day when you can’t spend as much
time with them anymore.



Sounds pretty busy, doesn’t it? After all, it takes effort to become
the most eligible bachelorette (haven’t we heard much about not simply
waiting for the right one, but being the right one?) And regardless of
the outcome, whether you remain single or get married, you can say: I
have lived a fantastic life!

