http://ymi.today/2015/11/a-tribute-to-my-mother/

A Tribute to My Mother

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charlotte Diana, Indonesia

My mother is one of the most amazing women I know. After my father
died in 2011, she remained strong for the sake of her three children,
making and selling Indonesian desserts known as “Lapet” and “Es Buah”
to support us.

Living with limited finances has taught her to be more careful with
her money. Even though I give her money every month now, she uses it
only to buy household items.

One day, my mother told me about her dream of starting a mini-grocery
store in our house.

“Are you sure about this, mom?” I asked.

“Yes. I want to earn my own keep so that I can help you. Besides, when
you are at work, I’m home alone. Having a mini-grocery store will keep
me busy so I won’t feel alone,” she explained.

Over the next few months, we tried to save money by cutting down on
our expenses and setting aside some of our income for my mum. But the
amount was not enough. We did not have enough money to make it work,
and her dream seemed impossible to achieve.

One day, however, my mother received a surprise gift from my uncle. It
was a glass rack with sliding doors. My uncle had heard about my
mother’s desire to start the store, and had got her the rack to
display items to sell. My mother was very happy.

But she did not use the glass rack immediately. She thought that she
had to buy all the things she needed before she could open the mini-
store. Only after we encouraged her to just go ahead, did she buy a
few products for her store, place them on the rack, and open her
store.

On the first day, only a few people came in to buy something.
Nevertheless, she did not complain. She greeted everyone who came by
with a smile.

(A picture of my mother at her mini grocery store.)

Slowly, however, my mother managed to make some money. She also
learned how to be a good sales person and a blessing to others.
Whenever someone asked for something which was unavailable, she would
always try to offer an alternative so that the customer’s trip would
not be wasted. Her friendly and helpful manner kept them coming back.

Sometimes, the boys and girls who came by did not have enough money to
buy what they wanted. Once, my mother asked one of the boys: “Where
are your parents?” “They work all day long,” he replied sadly.
Remembering her own daughter, my mother smiled and asked how much
money he had. She then decided to give the boy what he wanted, free of
charge.

At other times, security guards and rubbish collectors would stop by
for water and snacks. One night, when the store was already closed,
someone rang the bell to buy a bottle of water. On another occasion, a
rubbish collector stopped by to buy aspirin after suffering from a
headache from working too long in the sun. My mother not only opened
the store just for these customers, but even offered the rubbish
collector a place to rest for a while.

Maids were another group of people who frequented her store. Some came
by not just for household amenities, but also to share their problems
with my mother. She also noticed that many of them would buy
medication to treat the symptoms of their sickness, but did not have
enough money to go to hospital.

Troubled by this situation, she decided to take it upon herself to
educate the maids about a government health program that subsidized
hospital visits and mediation. Having registered for it herself, she
knew how the program worked and could explain what it was about. She
helped them get the registration forms and also helped them register
for the program. Over time, more and more maids came forward to ask my
mother about the health program, and most of them registered and
received better medication.

Soon, word spread about my mother’s mini-grocery store, and it started
getting crowded at certain hours in the day. It enabled my mother to
earn enough to buy a new refrigerator to start selling frozen food.

It’s been a year since my mother opened her store, and she has helped
and served many people.

Over the course of this year, I’ve seen how God has given her this
privilege not just to be a sales person, but also to be a servant and
mentor to others. I’ve seen how God has given her this privilege not
just to be a sales person, but also to be a servant and mentor to
others. God helped and encouraged her so that her dream could become a
reality. And I’m encouraged by how she constantly prays to God and
places her hopes in Him.

Being a widow did not make my mother bitter. She has not only
succeeded in supporting the family, but also been an inspiration to
many young people, including myself.

May we too let our lives shine for Jesus, so that when others see our
lives, they will be able to see the Almighty God who has written our
life story.

