https://ymi.today/2017/12/the-star-of-bethlehem-was-not-the-point/

The Star of Bethlehem Was Not the Point

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jonathan Trotter, USA

“Where is the newborn king of the Jews? We saw his star as it rose,
and we have come to worship him.”

The Star of Bethlehem had a point, an important point. But the star
was not the point.

The star fulfilled its role of leading people across cultures and
religious paradigms, down dusty roads and around a paranoid prince, to
the Child. He was the Point, this Son, and He shone brighter. He, the
Child-King, deserved adoration from all peoples, in all languages, for
all of time.

And we, the Church, like the star, have a point. But we are not the
point. Jesus is.

The star inspired a journey, away from comfort and the great “known.”
So may we.

The star led through danger and politically dicey situations. So has
the Church, historically, and so do we, presently.

The star challenged prejudice, inviting outsiders in. So may we.

The star incited worship, but not of itself. So may we.

As we celebrate the incarnation of hope, the birth of the Lamb who
would be slain, let us pray for ourselves, His glorious Bride, as we
wait expectantly for His return and the restoration of all things.

May we, Your Bride, O Christ, rise like the star, guiding people to
their King.

May we remember that, in leading people to You, we may lead them into
danger, both before they find You and afterwards.

May we inspire people to start journeying towards Jesus, no matter how
long or treacherous that path might be. May we show a clear path to
You. Not necessarily safe, but clear.

May we encourage people to do things they weren’t planning to do, like
forgive, give, or go.

May we draw people from distant lands, astrologers and pagans from
cultures distinct and different. And after introducing the Savior, may
we allow them to return to the places they’re from, knowing that when
they return, they go forever changed, having bowed to the King.

May the first Star of Bethlehem shatter into a million pieces—not
breaking, but multiplying into galaxies of stars that light up the
world, into churches calling men and women from every corner of the
planet, to come and see this thing You have done, this story for the
ages.

May we be ever diverse, with layers of cultures and languages, colors
and fragrances, incomes and social standings, shepherds and sages, all
circled around Jesus, giving our gifts. May we be One, Father.

May we revel in the joy of others as they bring their gifts to Jesus.

May we, the Bride of Christ, stand strong as a bright and pure witness
to the passionate love of God, made clear through the Son, Jesus. A
guiding light to those who would seek You, their King.

May Your Spirit, O God, be with Your people. Amen.

Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the reign of King Herod.
About that time some wise men from eastern lands arrived in Jerusalem,
asking, “Where is the newborn king of the Jews? We saw his star as it
rose, and we have come to worship him.” King Herod was deeply
disturbed when he heard this, as was everyone in Jerusalem. He called
a meeting of the leading priests and teachers of religious law and
asked, “Where is the Messiah supposed to be born?”

“In Bethlehem in Judea,” they said, “for this is what the prophet
wrote: ‘And you, O Bethlehem in the land of Judah, are not least among
the ruling cities of Judah, for a ruler will come from you who will be
the shepherd for my people Israel.’”

Then Herod called for a private meeting with the wise men, and he
learned from them the time when the star first appeared. Then he told
them, “Go to Bethlehem and search carefully for the child. And when
you find him, come back and tell me so that I can go and worship him,
too!”

After this interview the wise men went their way. And the star they
had seen in the east guided them to Bethlehem. It went ahead of them
and stopped over the place where the child was. When they saw the
star, they were filled with joy! They entered the house and saw the
child with his mother, Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped him.
Then they opened their treasure chests and gave him gifts of gold,
frankincense, and myrrh.

When it was time to leave, they returned to their own country by
another route, for God had warned them in a dream not to return to
Herod. (Matthew 2:1-12)



This article was originally published here. This version has been
edited by YMI.

