http://ymi.today/2017/10/i-almost-got-a-divorce/

I Almost Got a Divorce

Author: by Agnes Lee

When I was younger, I used to think that I could overcome anything as
long as my husband loved me. But after getting married, my husband’s
poor health, among other things, almost led me to give up on my
marriage.

My husband has a history of epilepsy. He experiences seizures about
two to three times a year and has been hospitalized on a number of
occasions. Because of his poor health, he is only able to handle
simple tasks and is unable to get a job with decent pay. So on top of
having to care for him physically, I also have to support him
financially.

One day at work a few months after we got married, I was informed by
my husband’s colleague that my husband had experienced another seizure
and was waiting for the ambulance to take him to the hospital.

Although I felt anxious about his condition, I was frustrated at the
inconvenience his seizure had caused me. My mind even drifted to the
idea of a divorce. Nevertheless, I decided that I would hide my
unhappiness. I took urgent time off from work and rushed to the
hospital to attend to him.

My frustration with my husband continued to grow as we entered our
second year of marriage. Not only was he not providing for our
increasing finances, he wasn’t helping out at home or meeting my
needs. As his wife, he demanded total submission from me; I was very
stressed about not being able to live up to his expectations. And
while I wanted him to be involved in housework and caring for the
baby, he felt that this was not the role of husbands.

Seeing the financial and emotional burden I had to bear, well-meaning
relatives encouraged me to file for a divorce. I seriously
contemplated this option. But in the midst of this, my Christian
mentor pointed me to Jesus. Her words changed my perspective about
marriage and taught me the following three lessons:



Submission to my husband was difficult because I felt that he was
never understanding towards me. But one of the key things my mentor
reminded me of was that God is the head of my household (Colossians
2:10).

When I shifted my focus from pleasing my husband to pleasing God, I
realized that submitting to my husband, was in itself, an act that
pleased God (Ephesians 5:22). My mentor also reminded me to press on
in marriage because God had brought the both of us together (Mark
10:9) and that divorce did not please God.

Instead, I was instructed to go to God whenever I was weary (Matthew
11:28). Whenever I felt like giving up, I would cry out to God and beg
Him to either deliver me from the marriage or to strengthen me. God
would always comfort me, reminding me that His grace is sufficient for
me and His power is made perfect in my human weakness (2 Corinthians
12:9).



Although there were moments I felt as though I had made a mistake in
marrying my husband, God reminded me that He made no mistake when He
allowed this marriage to take place.

In fact, God made earthly marriages to remind us of the upcoming
eternal and perfect marriage supper of the Lamb, and to mimic His love
for the church (Ephesians 5:21-30) and to be a display of God’s glory.
When God designed man and woman to become one flesh in a marriage
(Genesis 2:23-24, Matthew 19:4-6, Mark 10:6-9), He wanted to show how
Christ and the church are one.

As I began to understand that, I started to see submission to my
husband as a form of reverence for God. It became a form of worship to
God. That’s when the burden of submitting to my husband became
lighter. With the new perspective of how the Church—as the Bride—is to
submit to God, I find it easier to submit to my earthly husband.



I often feel helpless about my husband’s seizures. I’m always afraid
that his condition might cause him to suffer serious permanent injury
or even death. When that happens, I would have to raise my child
singlehandedly.

After each attack, I would feel listless for a few days, worrying
about the future. What if my husband became bedridden one day? What if
his medical expenses escalated beyond our means? What if my son had to
grow up without his dad by his side? What if I could not cope on my
own as a single mum?

Sometimes, I wish I had married a healthy man and not him. But over
time, I learned to surrender my fears to Him, allowing God to change
me with His Word and for Him to take over our relationship. Sometimes,
I wish I had married a healthy man and not him. But over time, I
learned to surrender my fears to Him, allowing God to change me with
His Word and for Him to take over our relationship. Through such
trials, God has taught me to accept my husband for who he is—in
sickness or in health—and trust that He is in charge of our welfare.

Today, we still struggle with the day to day challenges as a family
and my husband still suffers from seizures occasionally. In fact, he
had another attack again last month. However, the both of us have seen
and experienced God’s grace in our marriage and my husband has also
seen how God had changed my heart to be more yielding to him. Now, he
has become more understanding towards me and no longer demands as much
without sparing a thought for my feelings.

The both of us have also learned to appreciate things that are eternal
and not to focus on those that are temporal. By the grace of God, my
imperfect marriage has drawn us nearer to our perfect God who blesses
us with unshakable hope and joy to weather through difficulties.



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



