http://ymi.today/2016/03/3-reasons-why-christians-need-to-be-hearing-
the-gospel-again/

3 Reasons Why Christians Need to be Hearing the Gospel—Again

Author: by Joanna Hor

“Good morning! This is the gospel, it’s free,” the middle-aged man
said brightly as he extended a tract titled “If Only” to the lady
walking ahead of me.

When she shook her head, he turned to me and offered the same tract.
“And you?” Giving him a slight smile, I shook my head too and
quickened my pace. “That tract is meant for non-Christians. I’m
already a Christian, I know what’s in that tract and I don’t need it,”
I told myself.

Almost immediately, the self-reproach began. “What’s wrong with going
through the gospel again? When’s the last time I heard the gospel? Do
I really know the gospel? ” Ashamed, I made a mental note to take a
tract if I was offered one again.

Some weeks have passed since that episode, but in the lead up to Good
Friday, I found myself revisiting the question: Is the gospel only
meant for non-Christians?

My simple answer is: No. In fact, I’d go so far to say that the more
we Christians think that we’re doing okay, the more we need to hear
the gospel. Here’s three reasons why.

1. We fluctuate – because we get confused by what the world tells us.

Like it or not, accepting Jesus into our lives and proclaiming Him as
Lord doesn’t mean our problems will just disappear. Our struggles with
sin, frustrations with nasty bosses or colleagues, and disappointments
with dysfunctional families will still exist. Natural calamities and
debilitating illnesses will still plague us.

Against this challenging backdrop, we also have to contend with voices
that threaten to sway us in opposite directions. “You’re a failure,”
detractors might say when we can’t stop sinning. “Don’t try to change
yourself, you’re perfect,” the world will tell us one moment later.
But when our addictions and the weight of our guilt hound us, we will
hear it again, “You’re not good enough.” As the cycle repeats itself,
we become deflated and defeated.

In a world of changing values and morals, we need to hear the
unchanging message of the gospel over and again. We need to be
reminded that God values us not because of our looks, abilities,
credentials or family background, but simply because He made us (Psalm
139:13–16). We need to be reminded that God loves us no matter how
rotten we’ve been, and He showed it by sending Jesus to die for us
(Romans 5:8). We need to be reminded that all we’re facing is
temporary, and we have a glorious hope to look forward to (Romans
8:18).

Knowing the gospel well gives us a consistent footing in life.

2. We forget – because we get distracted and discouraged (sometimes by
the devil).

It’s human nature, unfortunately. Sure, there are times when, brought
to our knees in repentance or gratitude for God’s mercy and grace, we
rededicate our lives to Him, promising to stop wasting our lives and
to start using our time, effort, and money for Him. Then, fired up and
hungry to do something for God, we plunge headlong into acts of
service to God.

But that’s when the devil will put in extra effort to pull us away
from God at the slightest opportunity. This may come in the form of
two roadblocks: discouragement and distraction. Things may not go
according to plan, everyday problems may set in, or people we hold in
high regard may fail us, and we lose heart. Or, the demands of work
and family and the appeal of worldly acclaim and success creep in, and
we find ourselves losing steam and losing focus.

The reality is that times like these will surely come. Jesus Himself
said that His followers would be beset by trials of every kind. How
can we cope and continue to live for Him? By cultivating a familiarity
with the gospel. Reading it over and over again will help us remember
and cling on to God’s truth in times of difficulty. When we understand
the future glory that Jesus promises for us, we find strength to
persevere in our present challenges.

Don’t worry, familiarity does not breed contempt, as far as the Bible
is concerned. In fact, the more acquainted and familiar we are with
the gospel, the more we will be strengthened and able to stand against
the wiles of the devil and trials of the world (Ephesians 6:10-17).

Knowing the gospel well keeps us focused on living for God.

3. We fall short – because we are still sinful at heart.

Even though Adam and Eve enjoyed a relationship with God, they were
still tempted by the things of this world (Genesis 3:6). Isn’t that a
clear enough indicator that none of us is immune to temptation?

As humans, we are carnal in nature and if we don’t guard our five
senses—taste, touch, smell, hearing, and sight—we will end up being
enticed into sin. I know how susceptible I am to covetousness and
idolatry in my own life: I find myself easily dissatisfied and envious
of others who have more going for them in looks, abilities, and
success. Although I know fully well that none of these things last, I
find myself taking time and effort to advance in those aspects instead
of spending my time and effort on growing in my relationship with God.
Ironically, it makes me feel even more empty and inadequate.

But we may swing to the other extreme too. We may read our Bibles
daily, pray regularly, serve enthusiastically—and think that we’re
okay because we don’t really have “big” sins in our lives. We might
even be tempted to believe that it’s our good works that saved us in
the first place. At times, we might also think we’re better than
others, and judge them for not being as faithful as we are. Perhaps
that’s why Jesus devoted a major portion of his ministry to addressing
the Pharisees’ self-righteous attitudes.

No Christian is perfect. Only when we immerse ourselves in the gospel,
will we remember that it’s not about what we can accomplish, but what
Christ accomplished for us. Colossians 2:6-7 reminds us that being a
Christian is not just about receiving Jesus into our lives. It’s also
about growing in our relationship with Him.

Knowing the gospel well keeps our lives holy, because we want to
please Jesus.

So how do we go about ensuring that we get a regular intake of the
gospel? Preach the gospel to ourselves! Paul Tripp, an American
pastor, author and conference speaker, once said, “No one is more
influential in your life than you are. Because no one talks to you
more than you do.”

This Good Friday, will you preach the Good News to yourself again?



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



