http://ymi.today/2015/08/friendship-in-our-fast-paced-society/

Friendship in Our Fast-Paced Society

Author: by Michele Ong

I’ll be the first to say that if there was ever an award for “Worst
Friend”, I would win first place. There have been times when I was so
caught up with my work, I forgot my friends even existed. If I was not
busy replying to work-related text messages, then I was constantly
checking my email. I was so wrapped up with work that I neglected my
friends—the very ones who would be with me when the chips were down.

The irony is, I know what it is like to grow up without any friends: I
spent a few painful years not quite fitting into any of the social
circles in high school. When I moved overseas, I was thrown into an
entirely new culture, and spent many lonely morning tea breaks and
lunches in a corner, trying to finish my meals as quickly as possible
before heading to the library to be in the company of books.

Thankfully, I made new friends as the years passed. We have remained
friends, attending one another’s graduations and spending many
memorable summers on road trips together. Each of my friends is
unfailingly loyal, kind, generous—and will help me make lemonades when
life throws me lemons.

How about you? What sort of friend are you? Are you a Facebook-only
friend, the kind who shares in someone’s joy by “liking” their posts
and status updates, but have never actually met them in person? Are
you a Facebook-only friend, the kind who shares in someone’s joy by
“liking” their posts and status updates, but have never actually met
them in person? Are you someone who is so busy with your own life that
you barely have the time to text a few words to an old friend whom you
have not talked to in more than a month? Or are you the type to take
at least three days to reply to a friend’s message, only to give your
standard reply along the lines of, “Hey, sorry, I’ve been swamped. My
folks were in town, and it was one deadline after another at work.”

In this fast-paced society, many of us tend to make less effort in
keeping up with our friends and getting to know someone on a personal
level. Instead, we spend more time checking our Facebook newsfeeds or
refreshing our Instagram accounts to see who is dining at the latest,
hippest restaurant, or doling out judgements on people’s clothes,
choice of makeup, or music tastes. Soon, we forget that our friends
are not just another status or photo on Facebook and Instagram: behind
these photos lie real people who may be wishing for a friendly phone
call, a note to ask about their day, or an invitation to lunch.

We are designed for friendship; the Bible says, “Two are better than
one, because they have a good return for their labor: If either of
them falls down, one can help the other up. But pity anyone who falls
and has no one to help them up.” (Ecclesiastes 4:9-10)

This reminds me about the one Person who sticks closer to us than a
brother—Jesus Himself. While our earthly friendships may fail,
friendship with Jesus comes with many life-giving benefits. We can
count on Him to be our counsellor, comforter, provider, and healer,
and He has promised to be with us 24/7. “He goes with you and He will
never leave you nor forsake you” (Deuteronomy 31:6).

Friendship with Jesus means we are able to cast our problems on Him
because He cares for us (1 Peter 5:7). And if an earthly relationship
has left us brokenhearted, we rest in the knowledge that He will heal
our hearts, bind our wounds (Psalm 147:3), and bottle up all our tears
(Psalm 56:8). And if an earthly relationship has left us
brokenhearted, we rest in the knowledge that He will heal our hearts,
bind our wounds (Psalm 147:3), and bottle up all our tears (Psalm
56:8).

And just as a group of good friends can come together to share their
hopes and dreams, so a friendship with Jesus means we are able to
bring our dreams to Him, and know that He will give the desires of our
heart if we delight in Him (Psalms 37:4).

While there is no guarantee that being friends with Jesus would spell
days of endless sunshine and rainbows, you can rest in the assurance
that He will weather the storms of life with you when you feel like
the world is collapsing around your ears. American writer and speaker
Gregg Levoy once said, “Jesus promised those who would follow him only
three things, that they would be absurdly happy, entirely fearless,
and always in trouble”.

So remember, the next time if you find yourself feeling lonely or
burdened with problems, call out to Jesus—you will find in Him a
friend for every season.



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



