http://ymi.today/2015/09/should-we-embrace-challenges-in-life/

When Trials Come: Fight or Flight?

Author: by Shawn Quah

I have a tendency to take on more than I should. At times, it’s to
prove to myself that I can handle it. At other times, it’s to please
someone and gain recognition for my efforts. This sometimes leads to
stress and in a worst-case scenario, depression.

When I was an IT consultant, I was tasked to work with a high-profile
client and be a go-between for my company. I took on the assignment
with gusto, thinking that this might be my time to shine. However, the
client’s demands proved to be more than I could handle. And when push
came to shove, the company chose to side with the client and try to
meet his unreasonable requirements rather than stick to what we had
originally offered in the contract.

As you can imagine, this led to many problems and internal squabbling,
with some of the staff refusing to do anything outside their scope of
work. I remember walking into office one morning, opening my laptop
and staring at the blank screen for a good 5 to 10 minutes, thinking
to myself: What was I doing here?

That was a difficult time in my life and it led me to ask myself
whether I could avoid all these problems by taking on something less
stressful instead. Perhaps, I thought, I could find a job that didn’t
involve dealing with difficult people and difficult situations.

But then I realized this: Was this even possible in our fallen world?
Perhaps it was, if one lived a life of solitude and avoided all
contact with others. That, however, was simply not practical. Clearly,
I could not run away from the challenges I faced in life: I had to
deal with them.

Which left me with the question: How?

The book of James in the Bible tells us how we can respond in the face
of trials: “Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever
you face trials of many kinds” (James 1:2). Joy is probably one of the
emotions we’re least likely to feel when we face challenges, yet there
is value in this advice. Training ourselves to look at things from a
positive point of view is far better than being trapped in a vicious
circle of depression.

But why should we feel joy? The author of James explains: “Because you
know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance” (v.3).

And how can we persevere? James tells us next: “If any of you lacks
wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without
finding fault.”

I often regret not persevering in my job. But I’ve learned that these
words apply to every phase of my life. I’ve come to see that trials
are meant to teach me perseverance in my faith: When faced with a
trial, I should not despair, but pray that God will help me to
persevere. I’ve come to see that trials are meant to teach me
perseverance in my faith: When faced with a trial, I should not
despair, but pray that God will help me to persevere. I can keep
trusting Him through the experience, so that I can better face the
next challenge that comes my way.

Let us continue to seek God and pray for His wisdom to help us through
our struggles and challenges in life.

“Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face
trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith
produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you
may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. If any of you lacks
wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without
finding fault, and it will be given to you.”—James 1:2-5



Shawn is a laid back friendly person, who loves online gaming and the
opportunity it brings in meeting new people across the world. He loves
eating and though his favorite food is a well-kept secret, we have it
on good authority that it’s either Hor Fun or Char Kway Teow. He
enjoys writing poetry in his free time and hopes that the Lord will
continue to inspire him each and every day. Despite the fleeting and
uncertain nature of life, his fondest wish is to continue living it in
service to the family he has come to love dearly—God’s family.

Read more of his writings at his blog.



