http://ymi.today/2015/07/how-i-discovered-my-spiritual-gift/

How I Discovered My Spiritual Gift

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charlotte Diana, Indonesia

“Do you have a spiritual goal in your life?” the guest speaker asked
us during a youth ministry meeting one Saturday evening.

He then explained that if we were born just to grow up, study, get
married, have children, become old, and finally die, this meant that
we would be living only to meet death. For the rest of the evening, I
reflected on his statement. At home, I continued to mull over my
pastor’s words, but I did not know how to answer his question.

“How come I don’t have a spiritual goal in my life?” I asked myself.
That question made me realize that God must have had a reason for
creating me, but I’ve never asked Him for it before. Sitting alone in
my room, I recalled the day I was baptized. My pastor had given me a
card which quoted Romans 12:8: “If it is to encourage, then give
encouragement . . .”

Someone told me that my pastor had prayed for me before giving me that
card. At first, I ignored what was written; I was worried that I might
not have the gift to encourage. In any case, I thought, the pastor
could have been wrong about me.

A few days later, I started reading the book The Purpose Driven Life
by Rick Warren, hoping to eventually find my spiritual goal. It had a
40-day reading program which was not easy to complete, but I decided
to persevere, as many people had said that the program helped them
discover their spiritual goals. I wasn’t so sure, however, whether it
would apply to me.

At the end of the 40 days, I still had not found my spiritual goal.
But reading the book reminded me that God wanted me to spend more time
with Him, to grow in wisdom and knowledge of Him and His
righteousness. It also taught me to have faith in His plans. I knew
that everything would be done in His time. In the meantime, I could
only keep praying and trusting that God would allow me to ultimately
know my goal in life.

As time went by, it seemed as though God was speaking to me by
bringing to mind past memories, one of which was an experience from
several years ago. Then, a couple of friends had written me letters
sharing their problems. Some didn’t ask for advice; all they wanted
was a listening ear. Some even called me on the phone and asked me to
pray for them. This happened even with complete strangers. Once, while
I was waiting for my brother at his school, a mother who was sitting
beside me suddenly introduced herself and started to share about her
past. Among other things, she told me that she had just gone through a
divorce.

All this led me to question why such things kept happening to me.
After all, I don’t really like to sit down and listen to people; I
would rather read a novel than spend time talking to them .

One day, a friend called me to ask for help. Her youth ministry was
planning to hold a camp and the organizing committee was short of one
mentor for its care groups. After praying over several names, they had
identified me, feeling that I was the answer to their prayers. My
friend asked me if I was willing to become a mentor. At the time, I
did not know how to answer them. Fortunately, they gave me a week to
pray.

During that week, I re-read the notes I had made while reading The
Purpose Driven Life. I prayed and asked God to give me a heart of
wisdom, because I was afraid of making the wrong decision. What
happened next was amazing. Each day, God showed me that many people
needed encouragement in their spiritual growth, and led me to Bible
verses that gave me courage. Each day, God showed me that many people
needed encouragement in their spiritual growth, and led me to Bible
verses that gave me courage. At the end of the week, I told my friend,
“yes”. She was very happy, and told me about all the struggles they
faced in choosing a name from their list.

Through my experience as a mentor in the camp, I was given the chance
to listen to and encourage the members of my care group; I still do so
today. I’ve learned to appreciate the people whom God had used to
speak to me. I’ve also come to embrace the spiritual gift that God has
given me—encouraging others.

