http://ymi.today/2015/03/the-giant-beside-me/

The “Giant” Beside Me

Author: by Amy Ji

During one of my church’s mission prayer focus sessions, I heard an
interesting testimony about a young missionary whom I shall refer to
as “M”.

Just shy of her 30th birthday, God called M to South America where she
rented an affordable apartment near her office. There was only one
problem: she had to walk through a particular alley to get home
everyday. It was not the safest route to take, as there was always
people idling around, sometimes drunk—but it was her only route home.

On most days, she would take a brisk walk home after work before
sunset. But there were days that she would attend prayer meetings or
conferences after work which sometimes went way over time. On those
days, she would hug her bag close, pray aloud and practically sprint
through the alley.

One morning, the local police paid her a visit. They told her that a
young lady had been raped the night before in that very alley, and
they were looking for witnesses to identify the culprits. Having
passed the alley rather late that night herself, she recalled feeling
very afraid after seeing two men drinking and skulking around, and she
had prayed fervently as she walked past them.

At the police station, she learned that it was the same two men and
the incident happened a mere half an hour after she got home. The
obvious question that came to her mind was: why hadn’t they attacked
her too? When the police asked the duo about M during their
interrogation, they revealed that the petite Asian lady was with
another man who was easily a head taller than either of them.

It was a miraculous and powerful testimony about the God we believe
in. God truly protects us in ways that we cannot fathom. This
testimony also assured me that even in tough times when I do not see
His hand of provision, I can trust His heart.

Living in Singapore which is ranked the second-safest out of 99
countries, safety is something my friends and I often take for
granted. But whether we live in a safe country or not, it important to
remember that as believers, we have a great God who walks beside us,
just as He did with Adam in the Garden of Eden. I guess the question
then is—do we enjoy walking with Him as much? Do we spend time to
commune with Him or do we leave Him asking, “where are you my child?”

So amid the security we have—or perhaps I should say, especially since
we’re enjoying safety and peace—we have all the more reason to commune
with God. Would you take notice of the invisible giant beside you
today and give Him the regard He deserves?

And if like M, you stay in a less safe neighborhood, adopt good safety
measures, do your best to protect yourself, and trust that God walks
beside you.

Photo credit: i k o / Foter / CC BY-NC-SA



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



