http://ymi.today/2017/05/burned-out-and-guilty-at-work/

Burned Out And Guilty At Work

Author: by Contributor

Written By Katarina Tathya Ratri, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa
Indonesia

In March 2017, I had a burnout.

It came five months after I moved from my hometown in Central Java to
the capital city of Jakarta to work as an area manager in a food and
beverage company. As a manager, I’m in charge of overseeing some
outlets and ensuring that their quality, service, cleanliness, and
sales meet the company’s standards. This also includes telling staff
who don’t do their job well enough to pull up their socks.

Initially, I didn’t think it would be so difficult to adapt to my new
surroundings. Reality, however, couldn’t have been more different.
Many situations at work made me cry, and I found myself finishing work
late every night and even having to work on vacations. Pointing out my
subordinates’ mistakes was also extremely difficult, as most of them
had been working in the company for a lot longer than I had. Many were
also older than me, and spoke to me rudely.

When I told my best friends and my boyfriend about my problems, they
tried to cheer me up—but it didn’t really help. I ended up trying my
best to “ignore” work and not finish my tasks, even though this made
me feel guilty.

One Sunday at church, I listened to a sermon on God’s appointment of
Joshua to succeed Moses. He said, “Be strong and courageous. Do not be
afraid or terrified because of them, for the LORD your God goes with
you; He will never leave you nor forsake you” (Deuteronomy 31:6). When
I read this verse, I was reminded of my own struggles at work and
encouraged to face my problems bravely.

However, when Monday rolled around the corner and reminded me about
the reality of work, I felt afraid again, and began to come up with
ideas about how to avoid my responsibilities. I asked God for His
forgiveness for doubting Him, but the process just kept repeating
itself every day.

One night, I came down with a high fever and didn’t even have strength
to go to the doctor on my own. I called my boyfriend, and he flew from
Bandung to Jakarta to take me to a clinic. When the doctor told me
that my illness was due to the stress I faced at work, I nodded in
agreement.

That was when my boyfriend and I decided that we should take a break
from work and go on a trip around Jakarta. During the trip however, my
boyfriend’s wallet got stolen while we were taking a bus. The guilt of
having caused this indirectly, mixed with sadness and anger, made me
cry.

To my amazement, I saw that my boyfriend was still smiling. He told me
that he believed everything would work together for good, even though
the situation seemed bad. Upon hearing this, I felt ashamed. Over the
rest of the trip, I reflected and realized that I had never really
surrendered myself fully to God’s plan.

Since that time, I have changed the way I respond to my situation.
Whenever I am troubled by work, I try to remember what made me
initially decide to take up this job—to hone my skills as a leader. At
the time, I knew that this job wouldn’t be easy, and that it entailed
leading people who were older and more experienced than me. I found 1
Timothy 4:12 inspiring: “Do not let anyone look down on you because
you are young, but set an example for the believers in speech, in
conduct, in love, in faith and in purity.”

This verse has strengthened me and given me the courage to do this
job. I know that through this job, God is shaping me according to His
will. He has helped me to learn how to remain humble amid challenges
and to learn from the difficulties that I face, such as trying to meet
my supervisor’s tough demands.

God has also given me many second chances. As I recall how I used to
respond to my problems—simply ignoring my tasks—I realize that I
deserved to be punished or even fired. Yet God never left me when I
was down, nor when I made mistakes. Instead, He helped me and gave me
the strength to carry on. All I need to do is to keep learning to lean
on and surrender to Him fully.

Now, whenever I start work, I always make time to pray first. I used
to ask God to spare me and take away all my struggles and challenges,
but now, I have learned to ask God for the mental and spiritual
strength to go through each day. I want to be able to smile and
experience the joy of the Lord even when others treat me badly. I want
to be able to smile and experience the joy of the Lord even when
others treat me badly.

I have also learned to be patient when I face problems or difficult
people. With people at work, I try to stay joyful and have a deeper
conversation with them. Even though I know that there will always be
people who will not fully accept me as a leader, I am encouraged by
those who are slowly starting to open up to me. God has changed
me—from a person who used to give up easily and run away from others’
negative responses, to someone who would approach those who are
hostile to me and even talk to them about things relating to their
personal lives.

