https://ymi.today/2017/12/how-excited-are-you-for-christmas/

How Excited Are You For Christmas?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lydia Tan, Singapore

Fairy lights. Pretty baubles. Marshmallows roasting over the fire. The
fresh smell of pine trees.  Loved ones gathered around a table sharing
stories and good food. Wrapped gifts of all shapes and sizes with
pretty labels on them placed under the decorated Christmas tree.
Carols playing in the background as shoppers hurry about from store to
store, picking gifts for their loved ones.

These are just some of the things that come to mind when I think about
Christmas. I fondly remember the excitement I felt as a kid—staying up
the night before in great anticipation of all that the day would
bring: gifts that I had spent months asking for, yummy Christmas
dishes that only made their special appearance once a year, and the
wonderful Christmas cheer.

This was my favorite time of the year (and possibly many of you as
well). Sadly, all good things come to an end and I remember distinctly
the feelings of hopelessness and loss I felt the day after Christmas
when the realization hit me that I would have to wait another 364 days
for my favorite day to arrive again. What a whirlwind of emotions!

As I grew older, something changed.

Though Christmas was still my favorite season, it seemed like I was
gradually losing my excitement towards it. Celebrations started to
lose their appeal and all I wanted to do was to cuddle up in a warm
and cozy spot, reading a book with a cup of hot cocoa in hand.

What happened to that childlike wonder and thrill I used to have? Did
the swarm of activities, busyness of the season, and overexposure to
incessant Christmas marketing drain my excitement for the season?

That’s when it struck me—the reason I had lost my sense of awe and
wonder towards Christmas. It was built around the superficial and
temporal: gifts, food, ambience etc. But preferences change, times
change, and people change as the years go by. The only thing that
remains relevant and unchanging is the reason for Christmas: the birth
of Jesus Christ our Savior.

This realization got me thinking about how I could build a lasting
sense of wonder and awe towards Christmas. Through a conversation with
a dear friend (who has a larger-than-life personality and an amazing
passion for God and zest for life), God showed me how I could have a
permanent joy and wonder.



It may be tough especially when we’re going up against all that the
world stands for—the overwhelming voice of consumerism that’s telling
us to get that “perfect” gift and to use the joyous occasion to
overindulge. I found myself bogged down and stressed out to get the
ideal Christmas gifts for my loved ones, such that by the time
Christmas finally arrived, I was worn out.

Christmas is more than just about gifts. Instead of pouring our
thoughts and efforts into finding the “perfect” gift, why not spend
time writing meaningful cards to our loved ones, sharing about the one
perfect gift they could ever receive?

Fight the phenomenon and don’t give in to the world’s portrayal of the
season. You might feel like a little salmon going against the current,
but it will be worth it. Remind yourself of the One who quietly came
at Christmas. Take the moment to remember Jesus, our meek and gentle
Savior, who came in love and died for love.



And what better way to do that than to go back to the scriptures? The
gospel is and should always be the source of joy and wonder. As
apologist Ravi Zacharias once said: “Wonder is retained by wise
pondering.”

Take time to read and ponder over the different accounts of Christmas
in the gospels and ask God to give you deeper insights as you do so.
You might discover a different perspective that would refresh your
heart and fill you with a lingering wonder and deeper appreciation
that would last way past Christmas.



Have you ever experienced the joy that comes from seeing joy on
another’s face?

Think of different ways to bless others this Christmas and set aside
the time to do so. Besides writing Christmas cards to friends and
family reminding one another of why we celebrate and expressing our
love and appreciation, we could even go down to the local soup kitchen
to bless the less fortunate in our community by serving them and
listening to their life stories.

It is truly more blessed to give than to receive.



At the end of the day, all of these should be done not by our own
feeble effort but with great dependence on God. As Zacharias said:
“The older you get, the more it takes to fill your heart with wonder,
and only God is big enough to do that.” We have to remember that only
God is able to restore that childlike wonder in us, and to preserve
it.

I’ll end off with a saying from my all-time favorite writer, C.S.
Lewis. “If you want to get warm you must stand near the fire:  if you
want to be wet you must get into the water. If you want joy, power,
peace, eternal life, you must get close to, or even into, the thing
that has them.”

If we want to retain our sense of wonder and excitement, we need to
get close and back into the source of wonder—Jesus—this Christmas!

