http://ymi.today/2016/12/when-success-leads-to-dissatisfaction/

When Success Leads to Dissatisfaction

Author: by Contributor

Written By J Koon, Malaysia

In my part of the world, we have a Hokkien word to describe a sense of
competitiveness and unwillingness to fail: Kiasu. Literally, it means
“scared to lose”. Nobody likes to fail or lose. We all have ambitions
we want to achieve in life.

As a kid, I would dream of writing the Great Malaysian Novel, becoming
famous, and retiring early from my day job. Later, when I became a
medical student, I aspired to be like one of the inspiring female
physicians in our hospital who seemed to have it all―brains, beauty,
and wealth.

The first indication that chasing my dreams would not give me true
satisfaction was when I felt a sense of emptiness after finishing a
major exam. I felt aimless and lost. But I pressed on in life and
eventually achieved many of my career goals and secured a fulfilling
job. Even then, however, there was a nagging question that kept
popping up in my mind—“So what’s next?” And the more I tried to fill
this hollow feeling by looking for new projects at work, new
activities or new friends, the more I felt exhausted and unfulfilled.

In the Bible, we read of individuals who had many achievements,
wealth, and even women, but found that earthly success could not fill
the void in their lives and lead to ultimate fulfillment.

King Solomon had it all, and more. He asked God for wisdom, and
consequently became the wisest king of his time. He was successful
both materially and socially. Yet, when he wrote the book
Ecclesiastes, he opened with this: “Meaningless! Meaningless!” says
the Teacher. “Utterly meaningless! Everything is meaningless.”
(Ecclesiastes 1:2)

The apostle Paul, too, was an accomplished and learned man, but he
came to this conclusion: “What is more, I consider everything a loss
because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for
whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them garbage, that I may
gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ―the
righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith.” (Philippians
3:8-9)

I have since learned that to fill this void, I need to find my worth
in God instead of in achievements or busyness. The way to do so is to
devote time and effort to my walk with God, stay connected with my
church community, and to serve God faithfully. Focusing on my
relationship with God reminds me that I am His beloved child and helps
me remain humble. Being among his people offers a sense of belonging,
support and accountability. Serving others enables me to show His
love.

As Christians, we can remain steadfast even when we do not achieve
everything we set out to do. Only God can offer significance and hope
in life. We cannot bring our earthly status and possessions to heaven.
Whatever titles or wealth we have now will lie in the dust when we
finally face our Maker. All that remains will be who we are in Christ
and what work we have done for Him. All that remains will be who we
are in Christ and what work we have done for Him.

I have not written the great novel that I dreamed of, but God now uses
my writing for scientific literature, as well as for encouraging
others in their faith. I will not say I have completely let go of the
kiasu spirit, but I am learning not to strive after earthly success.
Instead, I am learning to make time for other things in life that are
important, such as God, family and church.

