http://ymi.today/2017/02/when-my-spouse-couldnt-read-my-mind/

When My Spouse Couldn’t Read My Mind

Author: by Contributor

Written by Rachel Moreland, USA

“People think a soul mate is your perfect fit, and that’s what
everyone wants. But a true soul mate is a mirror, the person who shows
you everything that is holding you back, the person who brings you to
your own attention so you can change your life.”

I remember clutching the book Eat, Pray, Love with dear life one night
in my apartment in Washington, DC, in the US. As I sped through the
pages, I couldn’t help but wonder, “Is this true? Can this kind of
honest and revelatory love really exist?” The words of the author,
Elizabeth Gilbert, sunk to my core. While I desired what she crafted
on paper, what I didn’t fully appreciate was how un-romantic this kind
of love would be. Let me explain.

I’ll never forget an argument that my husband and I had. I called it
one of the “big ones”. It all started with me complaining about how
James didn’t buy me a bottle of wine at the supermarket for a party we
were going to that evening. I was offended, grace was not extended,
and he reacted. What unfolded over the course of the evening (which
felt like a lifetime) was a long drawn-out argument, the kind of
heated debate that feels like it’s going on for hours and only seems
to conclude when you reluctantly hit the “pause” button to order a
pizza.

You’ve probably guessed that the argument wasn’t actually about a
bottle of wine. In fact, it had more to do with my insecurities and
the realisation that my husband couldn’t read my mind. He wasn’t
acting exactly the way I thought he should. He wasn’t meeting my
unrealistic and fanciful expectations.

When James and I got married, we were given a lot of helpful advice
such as “Discuss your expectations” and “Don’t criticize each other in
front of others”. The one that really hit home for me, though, had to
do with grace. Give each other the benefit of the doubt. Give each
other grace. Neither of you is perfect.

I didn’t give James the benefit of the doubt that night. He probably
didn’t extend that to me either; it takes two to argue, after all.
What I’ve slowly gathered since “the big one” was this—my husband
isn’t perfect, and putting unrealistic expectations on him is not only
unhelpful but also toxic to our relationship.

What I have learned since the fateful wine bottle argument is that
sometimes my husband forgets to pick up items at the grocery store.
From time to time, when he’s engrossed in a task, he may also forget
to perform basic human functions like eating a meal. (How anyone can
forget to eat for a period of three hours is beyond me.) And
sometimes, the trash will overflow if I don’t remind him to empty it.
If grace is left at the front door, I might be tempted to get a little
annoyed or resentful over what I have previously called his “cute
quirks”.

However, after being married now for the past 2½ years (I am by no
means claiming to be a relationship guru), I have come to understand
that marriage isn’t about “changing your spouse” into the perfect
Hollywood image of a “knight in shining armour”. If anything, you will
discover that the guy has plenty of kinks and dents in his armor.

Instead of expecting perfection, I want to celebrate my husband for
who he is and for who God created him to be. Choosing to see my
husband through God’s eyes has transformed my understanding of
marriage—and my role within our relationship.

Now back to Gilbert’s words on soul-mates. If you want a sure-fire way
of destroying your marriage, then by all means go ahead and compare
your spouse to your long laundry list of “I wish you did this”
statements. That will be just the ticket!

I can’t look to my husband to fulfil my every need when he was never
designed to. This is an impossible feat and to put that kind of
pressure on him will only lead to disappointment and resentment.

On the contrary, marriage will require you to change. That’s what
marriage does. It will reveal things you thought you had dealt with
long ago—the good, the bad and the ugly. On the contrary, marriage
will require you to change. That’s what marriage does. It will reveal
things you thought you had dealt with long ago—the good, the bad and
the ugly. But hopefully, in a godly, healthy and mature relationship,
your partner will give you the freedom to let down your guard, a safe
space to be vulnerable, and the support to help you sort through your
reflections with grace and wisdom.

James and I are not perfect, but I can honestly say that the longer we
have been together, the richer our relationship has become. In many
ways, he has mirrored to me what it looks like to be confident yet
gracious, as well as positive and optimistic yet realistic. In return,
hopefully I have reflected back to him how to be empathetic and
gentle.

Like “iron sharpens iron”, we aim to help refine one another in order
to become the people Christ has called us to be. This always will be
an ongoing process throughout our marriage. Like a set of train
tracks, our goal is to grow in maturity yet remain parallel to one
another as we come up against every curve and bend along the path.

Conflict and differences of opinion are bound to happen within
relationships. But instead of nit-picking every little thing my
husband has done wrong and trying to “fix” him, I know that
ultimately, real change and maturity will only come if Christ works in
Him. But I can show him sacrificial love, giving up myself for him—my
agenda, my selfish desires. It’s not always easy and it’s certainly
not the same kind of narrative Hollywood has portrayed to us at the
cinema. But it’s the kind of love worth fighting for.

