http://ymi.today/2015/06/the-struggle-to-love-my-dad/

The Struggle To Love My Dad

Author: by Shawn Quah

I cannot remember a time when my dad played a significant part in my
life—not in my growing years, and certainly not when I was a
rebellious teenager. He was always busy in his career, striving to
make a living to look after the family. At the time, I could not
understand why he was never there. I may have respected him, but I
didn’t love him.

It wasn’t as if we fought all the time, of course. In fact, there were
good times, when the family would go out for dinner or get together
with relatives during festive periods.

But there was always resentment beneath the surface, and it showed
whenever we got into an argument. We argued about my poor academic
results, how I failed to do the simplest things he asked, how he did
not understand me, and how he said hurtful things. As a result, the
gap between my father and I continued to grow.

When my dad hit his 50s, we found out he had cancer, and it had
reached an advanced stage. For half a year, he sought treatment from
specialists, but nothing helped. He was resigned to his fate, but even
then, I was nonchalant. The bitterness I felt towards him continued to
linger beneath the surface and I had little sympathy for him.

A few months after he started chemotherapy, he passed away, but I did
not shed a tear at his wake or burial.

A week after his funeral, I boarded a bus and saw people chatting with
their friends beside them. As I took a seat, I was reminded of my dad
who used to sit beside me—his laughter, his jokes, his words, his
smile, and the time I spent with him at the dinner table. Before I
knew it, I felt a warm wetness on my cheeks. I immediately got off the
bus, sat by the road and for the first time since his passing, I
cried. I cried over the loss of my father, crushed by the knowledge
that I would never see him again. I cried over the loss of my father,
crushed by the knowledge that I would never see him again.

That night, I told my mum about what had happened on my way back. She
then shared with me about how my dad had tried in his own clumsy way,
to make up for the lost time with me during my teenage days. He had
tried his best to get involved with what I was interested in, but in
my stubbornness I had seen it as meddling instead of what it truly
was—a father’s love for his son.

To this day, the memories of my dad remain with me, including things
he had said that didn’t make sense to me back then or which I had
dismissed as “rubbish”. I’ve realized how my anger had been a
stumbling block in my relationship with the man who had tried his best
for me. And I had been too proud to respond. I had failed to carry out
what Paul had said in Ephesians 4:26, “In your anger do not sin. Do
not let the sun go down while you are still angry.”

I may never see my dad again, as he was a non-believer when he died.
But if God ever gives me a chance, I would say to him what I wasn’t
able to say when he was alive: I love you, Dad.



Shawn is a laid back friendly person, who loves online gaming and the
opportunity it brings in meeting new people across the world. He loves
eating and though his favorite food is a well-kept secret, we have it
on good authority that it’s either Hor Fun or Char Kway Teow. He
enjoys writing poetry in his free time and hopes that the Lord will
continue to inspire him each and every day. Despite the fleeting and
uncertain nature of life, his fondest wish is to continue living it in
service to the family he has come to love dearly—God’s family.

Read more of his writings at his blog.



