http://ymi.today/2017/09/crying-over-nabeel-qureshi/

Crying Over Nabeel Qureshi

Author: by Joanna Hor

Screenshot taken from YouTube

I never thought I would cry over a complete stranger. But the death of
a man whom I have never met had me tearing up a few times this week.

Last night, it happened again while I was watching the live stream of
Christian apologist and author Nabeel Qureshi’s memorial service.
Hearing two of his mentors, apologist Ravi Zacharias and Rice
University chemistry professor Jim Tour, recount their time with the
34-year-old and his love for Jesus as well as his non-Christian
family, had me welling up in tears.

Perhaps it was because the tributes were heartfelt and heart-breaking,
or because it felt like I actually knew him personally. I bought
Nabeel’s book two years ago, and have been following his progress
since he first announced that he had advanced stomach cancer.
Whichever reason it was, Nabeel has certainly made an impact on my
life—as well as the lives of many others.

Here was a man who centered his entire life on Jesus and the gospel
even though it meant turning his back on the people he loved most
dearly—his family, who were staunch Muslims. Not only that, he went on
to proclaim the good news of Christ, through talks and books—such as
New York Times Bestseller Seeking Allah, Finding Jesus—despite threats
to his safety and relentless criticism from those who considered him
an apostate.

So many, including myself, were shocked that God would take him home
so early on in his earthly life. Like most people, I couldn’t help but
wonder, Why? Why now, when he was at the peak of his ministry? Why
now, when he had just started a family? Why now, when the world needs
gifted and passionate communicators like him to build bridges with the
Muslim community?

Though none of the answers that have been circulating online can fully
answer these questions, a post I stumbled on provides a deeply
encouraging and helpful perspective. It was written by Nabeel’s
colleague, the North American Director of Ravi Zacharias International
Ministries (RZIM). In a beautiful tribute to his dear friend, Abdu
Murray wrote:

Ravi Zacharias, who loved Nabeel deeply, has written about him in a
secular news source. Thousands who had never heard Nabeel or the
gospel he loved to preach have now been exposed to Jesus’s life-
changing message. People have seen Nabeel’s steely faith remain
steelier yet in the face of death. They have seen the “peace that
passes all understanding,” as the Bible calls it, in Nabeel’s voice.
And they are encouraged to face difficulty with grace. A deaf world is
roused through the megaphone of pain to hear the message that God has
overcome the troubles of the world through Jesus. Nabeel was a
megaphone for that message in his life and he is a megaphone for that
message in his passing.

If not for anything, Nabeel, who made a significant impact during his
life, continues to make an impact in his death. Many have come to know
of him, his books—and his God—after hearing about his life and death
over the past week. I believe Nabeel’s legacy will continue in the
weeks, months, and years ahead.

Of course, that doesn’t take away from the fact that Nabeel is no
longer with us. We will miss him dearly. But while his passing may
seem like a huge loss, let us not forget that he is in a far better
place today. And let’s not mourn without hope—for we have the full
confidence that God will continue to raise up men of great faith to
continue His kingdom work. Just as God can raise up a devout Pharisee
like the Apostle Paul and an ex-Muslim like Nabeel to become effective
ambassadors for Him, He can—and He will—continue to convict the hearts
of men in His own time and way.



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



