http://ymi.today/2015/04/do-we-still-need-to-fast/

Do We Still Need to Fast?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Lai, Singapore

I’ve never been one to subscribe to the spiritual discipline of
fasting. I’ve always considered it irrelevant in today’s
context—almost extreme, in fact. Fasting, I thought, was something the
Pharisees did to look good and impress people. God, however, has led
me to discover that fasting is a lot more than just superficial
religiosity.

In June last year, I started fasting for the first time. Over a period
of six months, I abstained from food once a week, drinking only
sweetened drinks throughout the day.

Until then, I had not realized how much comfort food could bring.
During that one day of fasting, I noticed myself becoming more
irritable and impatient as the day progressed—and sad by night-time.
By the end of the day, I would be anticipating my first meal of the
next day more than ever.

For many of us, food is a natural source of comfort. We don’t think
twice about eating to satiate our hunger. Some of us even rave about
how much we love eating. Until we deliberately stop ourselves from
eating, do we find out how important food is to us. When this basic
need is not met, discomfort and dissatisfaction naturally set in. And
it is when we have an empty stomach and unmet cravings, that we then
start to ask: What else can satisfy us fully?



When Jesus declared, “I am the bread of life” (John 6:35), He chose to
use food as an analogy to describe Himself and the way He meets our
needs. He continued: “Whoever comes to me will never go hungry, and
whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.”

Jesus knows our need for food, and the sustenance and satisfaction it
brings. But He is saying that He is that one source of food and
nourishment that is able to satisfy all our hunger and thirst. He is
saying that He is enough—He can give us enough satisfaction, enough
comfort, and enough sustenance. He is all the fullness we need. What
Jesus is saying is: I am enough for you.

So why fast?

The Bible does not say that all Christians must fast. But it does
present fasting as something that is profitable and good, and is often
mentioned together with prayer. Jesus Himself fasted for 40 days and
40 nights before being tempted by the devil.

Fasting forces us to question the source of our comfort and
satisfaction. It makes us think about what we turn to when our basic
needs or usual sources of satisfaction are taken away. It forces us to
ask ourselves if we really believe that Jesus is our one true source
of amazing, immense satisfaction.

You could fast from anything, not just food. You could abstain from
television programmes or even Facebook. You could abstain from
specific kinds of food (meat, cold drinks or dessert etc.), or entire
meals. You may also choose to fast for selected periods, such as once
a week or every morning.

Fasting may be a radical thing to do, and few of us may practise it
now. But I pray that the Lord Jesus will lead us to a fast that
teaches us to rely on Him alone for our satisfaction. But I pray that
the Lord Jesus will lead us to a fast that teaches us to rely on Him
alone for our satisfaction. As American preacher John Piper writes in
A Hunger for God (a book about fasting): “If you don’t feel strong
desires for the manifestation of the glory of God, it is not because
you have drunk deeply and are satisfied. It is because you have
nibbled so long at the table of the world. Your soul is stuffed with
small things, and there is no room for the great.”

Perhaps it is good to seriously consider this discipline of fasting,
while the Bridegroom is not physically with us.

“Jesus answered, ‘How can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he
is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken
from them; then they will fast.’ ” (Matthew 9:15)

Photo credit: Still_life88_second / Source / CC BY-NC

