http://ymi.today/2015/09/have-faith-not-fear/

Have Faith, Not Fear!

Author: by Contributor

Written By Damilola Fasoyiro, United Kingdom

When I was going through a difficult situation in my life—my family
was facing challenging financial circumstances, my parents were
separating, and my secondary school final exams were drawing near—I
found myself in a state of despair, not knowing where to turn to.

At that point, a Christian friend pointed out to me that we face
trials so that our faith grows stronger. She also shared with me that
God uses different situations for our good and that there was a reason
behind everything that happens. She encouraged me to place my problems
in God’s hands and rely on His help and guidance. Practically, I
learned to rely on God’s written word—the Bible—as my guide.

That’s where I learned that God does not leave us on our own to suffer
when we find ourselves in the darkest pit of life. Instead, He will
lead us through life and rescue us from the troubles we are facing,
just as Psalms 46:1–2 says, “God is our refuge and strength, an ever-
present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth
give way and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea”.

Even though my parent ended up separating, there was still good that
came out of it. Even though my parent ended up separating, there was
still good that came out of it. I had the opportunity to go to a
church which comprised people who care, are kind and are ready to help
others. As for my exams, I managed to do my best and got the grades I
wanted.

Life can hit us with various troubles, be it family problems,
financial instability, or life-threatening illnesses. We may find
ourselves asking, “Why me?”

Instead of focusing on that question—which we may never find the
answer to anyway—let’s rely on the Lord’s helping hand in such
situations, knowing that “in all things God works for the good of
those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose”
(Romans 8:28).

It may be very difficult to hold on to this truth in difficult
situations, but that does not change the reality that God does care
for His children. As of today, I am still facing problems in life, but
I know that God is there to guide and assist me. He is always there to
rescue us if we are in trouble.

