http://ymi.today/2017/07/confronting-marriage-struggles-before-and-
after/

Confronting Marriage Struggles: Before and After

Author: by Contributor

Written by Juli Vesiania, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

“And they live happily ever after.”

That’s what I gathered from the movies how marriage would be like. Two
people unite and start their married life together. Marriage was
supposed to be something beautiful, wonderful, and heartwarming.

The other reason why I looked forward to getting married was because I
wanted to be close to my children in age. I wanted to be a friend to
them, just as my mother was to me.

However, when the opportunity to get married finally came at the age
of 24 years old, I wasn’t so sure anymore.



For one, I wasn’t sure my boyfriend was “the one”.  How could I know
for sure that he was given to me by God? Am I sure I can live with
him? Am I the right person for him? Can I be his helper? I had so many
questions and they overwhelmed me.

That’s when I had to remind myself why I started dating him in the
first place. At the start of the relationship, I had asked my
boyfriend some basic questions. Does he fear God? Is he responsible?
What if this relationship progressed to marriage?

When I remembered his answers, the commitment we made to each other
when we started dating, and after getting to know him better through
our relationship, I became assured that he was the right one and
finally agreed to marry him.



After getting married however, I realized that marriage was not always
beautiful, wonderful, and heartwarming; it was certainly not a party.
Marriage was in fact, life after the party. Married life involves two
people with different backgrounds trying to live life together—and
that can be very challenging.

Before we got married, my boyfriend and I only met once a week, so our
differences didn’t really bother us. But after getting married and
having to live together, our differences have become a lot more
noticeable.

I like savory food. My husband likes sweet food. So now when we go out
for dinner, we must consider each other’s preferences. And when I cook
at home, I need to cook two different meals to fit both our taste
buds. Our differences have become something that we have to deal with
for a lifetime.

Another conflict involves our sleep schedules. I am an early bird, and
I’m full of energy in the morning. So I go to bed early and wake up
early. My husband, however, is a night owl. This is a problem because
we sleep in the same room. My husband might still want the lights on
in order to work on something, while I just want to hide my face under
my pillow, cover my ears, and yell, “Turn the light off! I want to
sleep!”

These might seem like simple problems, but if they are not resolved
well, they can be detrimental for the relationship.

One day, I came across a prayer by American theologian Reinhold
Niebuhr. It was a beautiful prayer which inspired me to deal with my
marriage problems wisely:

God, give us grace to accept with serenity the things that cannot be
changed,

courage to change the things which should be changed,

and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.

Reading that prayer reminded me that there are things we can’t change.
Instead, we need to adapt to and accept those things. I can’t change
the fact that my husband likes savory food and is a night owl. What I
can do is to learn to adapt and accept his preferences.

Sometimes, it can be a challenge when my wants differ from his wants.
But if it’s just about what I want, I need to compromise—to do
something just because it’s important to my spouse. If I want to guard
the peace in my relationship (Romans 12:18), I need to learn to give
in.

When we learn to submit to one another (Ephesians 5:21), we are able
to build a harmonious marriage. The little differences don’t bother us
anymore.

In the first five months of my marriage, I felt God refining and
shaping myself through every good and bad experience with my husband.
Though we still face differences in our characters and habits, I am
reminded that the purpose of marriage is not the pursuit of happiness.

Instead, as American author Gary Thomas writes in his book, marriage
is a means through which God refines us, so that we become more like
Him.  When someone gets married, they go through God’s refining and
shaping process. Happiness is not the purpose, but an extra that God
gives to us when we go through the process.



So, is marriage wonderful? Yes. But that doesn’t mean that there won’t
be any problems, or that everything will be peaceful, or everyone
happy. Marriage isn’t like the movies. Instead, it is beautiful
because my faith and knowledge about God grows, and also my character.

