http://ymi.today/2017/01/when-2017-starts-off-on-the-wrong-foot/

When 2017 Starts Off on the Wrong Foot

Author: by Joanna Hor

I blame it on the two cups of tea and one cup of coffee I had earlier
that day. Though it was almost 2am, my mind was still active and
raring to go.

I tossed and turned, growing increasingly frustrated. I just couldn’t
seem to fall asleep. My mind replayed the same prayer I had been
reciting since 1am. “God, please help me sleep. Tomorrow is the first
work day of 2017. Let it be a good start.” Finally, after an hour or
so, I drifted off to sleep.

The next time my eyes opened, an unfamiliar clock face configuration
was staring back at me. Confusion quickly gave way to panic: It was
one hour past the usual time I woke up. On the very first workday of
2017, I was going to be late.

I jumped out of bed and quickly texted my boss to apologize and let
him know that I had woken up late. To save some time, I took a cab.
But the cab driver somehow ended up taking the wrong route—which
prolonged my travel time and put both the driver and me in a foul mood
for most of the journey.

By the time I reached office, I was a good 40 minutes late. Though my
boss was completely understanding about what had happened, I was
disappointed with myself. Getting to work on time had been one of my
resolutions for 2017 and I had broken it on the very first workday in
a spectacular way.

It sure wasn’t how I wanted to start 2017.

I wasn’t the only one to suffer a bumpy start to the year—some of my
friends had even more dramatic stories than mine. One friend spent her
New Year’s Eve at work fighting fire—literally; a fire had broken out
in one of her company’s movie theaters due to an electrical fault. So
while the rest of the world was counting down to the New Year, she was
busy quelling angry members of the public. She only got home at 3am on
New Year’s Day.

Another friend suffered a severe asthma attack and had to be rushed to
the hospital on New Year’s Day. Thankfully, his condition is now under
control and he’s back to normal.

Two other friends told me how they had welcomed 2017 in tears—one
because of the lack of a relationship, the other because of her
relationship. For the former, the arrival of the New Year had reminded
her of the reality that she might never get married, something which
she had found overwhelming. The latter had gotten into a huge fight
with her husband over a decision she had made without consulting him.
Her eyes were still swollen when I saw her the next day.

Like me, none of them had expected their new year to start off on the
wrong foot. Everyone wants a good start. Everyone wants his or her
life to improve in the new year. And this usually translates into
making resolutions or actively seeking ways to help us start the year
well—whether it’s physically, mentally, psychologically, emotionally
and even spiritually.

But as my friends’ and my experience showed, life doesn’t always turn
out the way we want. Things still break down and problems still plague
us from all sides—even on New Year’s Day. And even if we start the
year well, there’s no guarantee that resolutions won’t be broken or we
would end the year well.

In case it sounds like I’m making light of New Year resolutions and
encouraging a defeatist outlook to life, I’m not. By all means, let’s
continue making resolutions with hope and optimism.

But my point is this: It doesn’t matter how we start. We could start
the year feeling completely jaded and ashamed because we failed to
meet any of our resolutions last year, or we could be all fired up to
make 2017 the most fruitful year of our lives.

As clichéd as this sounds, it’s not the start but the end that matters
(and I’m not referring to the end of 2017). As long as we have breath,
let’s not let disruptions, disappointments or even dates determine our
outlook to life. As long as we have breath, let’s not let disruptions,
disappointments or even dates determine our outlook to life. So what
if life doesn’t deal us the cards we want? So what if our year started
off poorly? So what if we have broken our New Year resolutions by the
second week of the new year?

In the face of my repeated failures, I’m reminded that every day is a
brand new day and God’s compassions never fail—they are new every
morning (Lamentations 3:22-23). Even if we’ve made terrible mistakes
in the past, like the Apostle Paul, there’s still time for us to turn
from our ways and start afresh.

It could be as simple as setting the exact same New Year resolution as
the year before. Or it could be seeking a community to help us get
back on track after a particularly difficult period of our lives. Even
if we have failed repeatedly before, it’s okay. Even if our start
didn’t work out the way we wanted, it’s fine. Let’s not give in to
despair. Get up and try again.

May we, like Paul, be able to say confidently by the end of our lives,
“I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept
the faith.” (2 Tim 4:7)



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



