http://ymi.today/2016/03/how-i-dealt-with-the-loss-of-a-loved-one/

How I Dealt With The Loss of a Loved One

Author: by Contributor

Written by Peerapat T, Thailand, originally in Thai

How do you remember a loved one who has passed away? For some, it
could be through their daily conversations as they recall fond
memories, while for others, it could be through mementos such as
photographs.

For me, it’s the latter. My family has a tradition of putting up
photographs of family members on the walls of our home. There are two
photographs of my great-grandparents on our walls; they were there
even before I was born. So even though I have never met them, they’ve
become a familiar sight and a part of my childhood.

Naturally, as I grew older, more photographs were added to the
collection. Some photographs bring back especially painful memories.
One is that of my elder brother, who was badly injured in a motorcycle
accident. I had just come to know the Lord then, and had gathered with
my church members to pray for him. After two rounds of brain surgery,
however, his condition did not improve, and he passed away shortly
after.

Another photograph is of my grandmother who died from diabetes. But
the one that affected me the most is that of my dad. One day, he had a
heart attack and passed away within minutes. His sudden and unexpected
passing left a deep sense of loss in my heart.

Recalling their passing has got me thinking: Why do we face death? We
die because it is a consequence of our rebellion against God—all of us
have sinned and fallen short of the  glory of God (Romans 3:23). Some
of us deal with death by trying to avoid thinking about it altogether,
or by living as if we would never die. But these approaches do not
take away the inevitability and impending reality of death. Even our
belief in God does not insure us against death or the experience of
losing our loved ones.

However, what’s different for us as Christians is that we have hope in
the face of death because of the precious gift of salvation through
Jesus’ death on the cross (Hebrews 9:27-28). We can take comfort in
knowing that God walks through the dark valleys of death and loss with
us. We can take comfort in knowing that God walks through the dark
valleys of death and loss with us.

Indeed, God comforted me greatly through His Word during my moments of
grief and loss. One verse that spoke to me during an especially
sorrowful moment was this, “Record my lament; list my tears on your
scroll—are they not in your record?” (Psalms 56:8) The realization
that God knew exactly how I felt brought me to tears and I was deeply
comforted.

Having fellow believers pray for me also served as a reminder of His
love and faithfulness in my life—that He has and will never forsake me
in the most difficult of times. It was also an encouragement and
testimony to the rest of my family who were not Christians. Truly,
God’s love shines so bright through His people in these dark moments
and brings about the healing of every broken heart.

Have you experienced a loss recently? Take heart, and remember that
God is with you always and never stops loving you. Put your hope in
Him and allow Him to be your comfort.

