http://ymi.today/2017/04/experiencing-lent-for-the-first-time/

Experiencing Lent for the First Time

Author: by Contributor

Written By Hannah Shoue, USA

This year marks the first time I’m actively participating in the
season of Lent.

Apart from it being an annual liturgical season, I originally had
little idea what Lent was about.  However, a few weeks before Lent
rolled around, I found myself being asked by many fellow students at
my small, Christian college what I was giving up for Lent. Initially
surprised at the question, I would usually flip it back to the one who
asked, to avoid having to respond to it myself.

I was intrigued to hear that many of my friends were giving up things
like chocolate, sweets, or other unhealthy practices. It seemed to me
that Lent was simply a second attempt at a failed New Year’s
resolution; a time for Christians to pledge themselves to being
healthier, exercising more, and giving up unhealthy habits.

With this initial skepticism, I almost didn’t go to the Ash Wednesday
service being held in my school’s chapel that Wednesday morning.  Like
a typical college student, I was also exhausted, and wondering if my
morning chapel break would be better spent napping on the couches in
the library.  However, curiosity got the better of me, so I went.

Lent, as it was explained during the service, is a time of self-denial
that helps us remember the suffering of Jesus and prepare our hearts
to commemorate His death on Good Friday, and His resurrection on
Easter Sunday.  Ash Wednesday marks the beginning of the season of
Lent, the forty day period prior to Good Friday.

Lent was starting to make sense to me; after all, giving up chocolate
for 40 days certainly ranked as suffering in my book. As the service
went on, however, I began to realize that Lent had a much deeper
meaning than merely giving up a daily comfort. It is not so much about
giving up something as it is about starting something new; it is about
denying ourselves in order to become closer to Christ. It is not so
much about giving up something as it is about starting something new;
it is about denying ourselves in order to become closer to Christ.

The time came for the receiving of the ashes at the end of the
service.  During a traditional Ash Wednesday service, there is a point
in the service where the participant has the opportunity to have their
forehead marked with a cross of ash.  The ash symbolizes grief at our
sin and grief at the suffering Jesus undertook to redeem us from the
eternal consequences of our sin.  The practice of giving up something
from our lives, and then standing up to receive the ashes,
encapsulates the Lenten experience in a symbolic gesture of penance
and remembrance of the crucifixion and resurrection.

I still felt unsure if I should participate though; I had never been
to an Ash Wednesday service before and I didn’t have something in mind
to let go of yet. However, the risk of being the only one still seated
prompted me to get up like the others to receive the ashes. When I
reached the elder holding the basket of ashes, I bowed my head towards
him and waited. “Because of your sins you will die, but because of
Jesus Christ you will live,” the elder proclaimed over my bent head as
he painted the symbol of the cross on my forehead.

Later that day, I sat down to reflect on my Ash Wednesday experience.
It made me want to participate in the Lenten experience of suffering
with Christ. I wanted to grow closer to God through denying myself of
something harmful in my life, something that hindered my relationship
with God. I was reminded of the verse in Hebrews 12:1, “throw off
everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles.”

In the end, the decision was clear to me. Earlier that week, I had
read through an article on Facebook about things to give up for Lent
other than chocolate. Based on some of the ideas from that post, I
decided to give up . . . worrying. I know that doesn’t sound like
denying myself of something special or enjoyable. However, God has
been working in my heart since the beginning of this year to surrender
my worry to Him and trust in Him. I have come to realize that
excessive worrying, while not exactly nice, is in reality a self-
indulgent practice. God was calling me to give up feeling sorry for
myself and taking a twisted attitude of pride in being more stressed-
out than others. He was calling me to put those actions and attitudes
aside, and to trust in Him.

Giving up worrying has been especially relevant in this Lenten season
as changes in my family and school situation have led to a lot of
uncertainty for the coming year. Now, more so than ever, I’m tempted
to fill my days with worrying over the future and being stressed about
what is to come. However, when I reflect on Jesus’ coming and
resurrection, I am reminded that because He lives, I don’t have to
worry. I am loved by a God who cares for me beyond what I can ever
imagine and I know that I can trust Him with my future.

