http://ymi.today/2016/11/should-christians-be-optimistic-or-cynical/

Should Christians be Optimistic or Cynical?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

In my earlier years, I constantly swung between being optimistic and
cynical. Whenever I wanted something desperately, I would fix my mind
on it and pour my 110 percent into it, along with a few prayers.

But whenever things didn’t work out my way, I would react like a
spoilt child who didn’t get the candy she asked for. In those moments,
overwhelmed by disappointment—and sometimes, resentment toward God—I
would tell myself that it was better to be a cynic than an optimist.
After all, I figured, optimism didn’t seem to pay off.

A friend of mine shared that he gives his best in everything he does,
but keeps failure as a viable option. His reasoning was this:
expecting the worst protects one from too much disappointment when
things don’t work out.

But not for me. In my case, whenever things didn’t work out, I would
be haunted by thoughts that maybe my wishes would have come true if I
been a bit more optimistic. After all, if the blind man hadn’t cried
out to Jesus to have mercy on him and heal his blindness, maybe Jesus
would have walked on by. If he had sat back wallowing in his
disability and believing that Jesus wouldn’t care and that there was
no hope for him, then he would not have been healed (Luke 18: 35-42).

Over time, I realized that the root of our unhappiness—regardless of
whether we are the cynical or optimistic type—is usually the same: we
want something but we don’t get it. So how do we address the root
problem?

The simple answer is hope.

Czech writer and philosopher Vaclav Havel once said that “hope is
definitely not the same thing as optimism. It is not the conviction
that something will turn out well, but the certainty that something
makes sense, regardless of how it turns out”.

The ultimate difference between hope and optimism is that the former
is rooted in a deep trust in God. It is an assurance that God’s will
would be done, regardless of the outcome. Jesus taught us to pray that
God’s will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That came before
praying for our daily bread (Matthew 6:9-13). It was something that
Jesus himself demonstrated at the most painful point of His ministry
on earth.

In the garden of Gethsemane (Matthew 26:36-46), Jesus faced the
reality of His impending death on the cross. But though the prospect
of what lay ahead of Him distressed Him to the point where His sweat
became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground (Luke
22:44), He did not abide by His will but by God’s will.

To be honest, trusting God to the point of death is no easy feat. The
human reflex is to flee from pain and sacrifice. A friend of mine once
held a job that did not honor God, and she was restless in her spirit.
She knew that if she quit that job, she would have no income to
support her child and herself. She had no family support in the
country she resided in and being an immigrant, it would be
particularly difficult for her to secure another job.

But it came to a point where she knew she could not continue to
dishonor God by her choice of career. So she took a bold leap of faith
and quit. The first month went by and there were no offers and no
interviews, but she hoped, and had faith. Three months later, a
recruiter called her and offered her a better job that would sponsor
her work visa and grant her child support.

I have since learned to change my prayer from “I want this and that”
to “let your perfect will be done”. I’ve learned not to be optimistic
but rather to have faith, to persevere, and to hope—in God.

Just a few years ago, I found myself in a job that was not what I had
prayed for. At the time, I could not understand why God wanted me
there. It was grueling work; my boss was so difficult that no one
could work with him except me. After two years, however, God gave me a
new job that was even better than what I had initially prayed for.
Ironically, I was selected for that job because of my experience in my
previous job—the one I had disliked. I realized that good always comes
out of every circumstance no matter how difficult the situation is,
and this truth has given me peace.

I have come to realize that God always answers our prayers with what
is good for us (Rom 8:28), even though what we hope for may not come
to pass in the particular way we envision it. He gives us what we
need—and not necessarily what we want.

