http://ymi.today/2017/08/is-it-okay-for-christians-to-read-self-help-
books/

Is it Okay for Christians to Read Self-Help Books?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jonathan Malm, USA

I have a confession to make: I write self-help books.

No “Christian Living category” author ever wants to admit that they
write self-help materials. Surely our work is far more important than
mere self-help. But when we examine the deep recesses of our souls, we
have to acknowledge there’s a whole lot of self-help in the books we
write.

I have a devotional called Created for More that helps creatives do
better work while also tapping into their walk with God. Then there’s
also The Hidden Option, a book that helps you make decisions when none
of your options seem good.

Because I write self-help books, I’ve had to ask myself a couple of
questions: Is it okay for Christians to read self-help books? Is it
okay for me to write them?

The Bible doesn’t actually say, “God helps those who help themselves.”
The truth is, that’s a phrase we invented because it sounds right.
Nevertheless, if you walk down the aisles of a Christian book store,
you’ll find tons of books from pastors and thought-leaders about
learning how to help yourself. And these books sell like crazy.

I have a Christian friend who’s a self-help junkie. Every time I sit
down to have coffee with him, our conversation inevitably comes around
to a new author he’s reading and his thoughts on how to lead a
successful life. “Have you read _______?” Or, “It’s like what ______
says . . .” I’m pretty sure my friend’s self-help book budget
surpasses some countries’ GDP.

At the same time, I don’t see my friend making much actual progress in
life. Each time I talk to him, he’s still struggling with the same
insecurities and drama. And that’s the problem with self-help books.
Self-help books don’t tell the whole story for believers.

There’s nothing fundamentally wrong with reading self-help books. But
if that’s where you leave it, you’re only getting part of the way
there. It’s like watching the first Lord of the Rings movie, but not
finishing the other two—and seeing Frodo ultimately destroy the ring
(#spoileralert).

Any ounce of self-help might give us a little bit of progress in
life—which is great—but there are greater things available to us.
Scripture says “we can do all things”; now that seems to be a self-
help start. But it doesn’t end there.



In John 15:5, Jesus said, “Apart from me you can do nothing.” That
means only through God can we overcome obstacles and make a lasting
impact on people. To be honest, I’ve had a hard time with this
Scripture in the past. I know if the Bible says it, I should believe
it. But I’ve also seen people who don’t even believe in God seemingly
capable of anything. The human spirit and our capacity to achieve is
far greater than we even know.

But acknowledging the source of that potential is the key to letting
God work in and through us so that we can do more than what we dare
ask or imagine.



The reason it’s so important to understand the source of our
power—that it comes from God—is that potential is wasted when it’s put
toward the wrong things. For instance, what’s the point of becoming
the wealthiest individual in your city if you’ve left a trail of
broken relationships in your wake? Or what good is having tons of
influence if you just waste it on your own vanity?

Being able to accomplish anything I put my mind to is a nice idea. But
what if everything I’m striving for is ultimately of no value? Only
God can guide me into doing tasks that will make lasting impact.

Ephesians 2:10 says, “He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we
can do the good things he planned for us long ago.” Self-help books
can’t tell me what God has prepared for me to do.



Finally, self-help books can’t tell you how you fit into the bigger
story God is telling. What’s your role in the story of humanity? How
depressing it is if your life only touches itself. But through God’s
empowerment and direction, we can do things that will echo throughout
eternity. Like the guy who stands up for injustice and infuses God’s
perspective into the situation. Or the college student who invites her
roommate to a Bible study—after showing months of unconditional love
like Jesus does.

When we do our work intentionally for His glory, we get to showcase
His splendor to the rest of the world. 1 Corinthians 10:31 says, “So
whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all for the glory
of God.” For me, that means my writing, though labeled tritely as
self-help, can bring God glory—as I make Him the central focus of my
books and not just a side note in a self-centered pursuit. One dumb
book, written in Jesus’ name, can become a glorious thing. And the
same is true for your life.

So yes, it’s okay for Christians to read self-help books. But if
that’s all you’re doing, you’re missing out on something greater. Seek
God for His direction and enablement, by praying and reading His Word.

Thank God for the strength He has given you, and ask Him where He
wants you to direct that strength.

