http://ymi.today/2015/07/how-i-survived-sharing-a-room-with-my-sister/

How I Survived Sharing a Room with my Sister

Author: by Wendy Wong

For almost my entire life, I’ve shared a room with my younger sister.
And as anyone who’s in the same plight would know, this pretty much
means constant mutual antagonism.

When you’re forced to work, play, and sleep in the same cramped
quarters as another human being, something’s bound to happen. Throw in
a generous dose of pubescent angst and teenage hormones, and you’ll
get two teenage girls scratching and screaming at each another 24/7.
(Okay, I may be exaggerating just a little.)

It happens all too often. Something small blows up into a full-blown
quarrel; an accidental bop on the elbow erupts into a vengeful brawl;
and a careless, stinging word leads to a tearful, hurtful squabble.

By the goodness and grace of God, through the tussles and struggles of
obeying His word, and with the maturing of age, however, our fights
happen much less frequently now.

Over the years, God has taught me some lessons about sharing a space
with my sister, and how to be a better sibling to her.



My sister and I have clashing nocturnal habits: I’m a lark who’s in
bed by midnight, while my sister’s an owl who’s still on her phone at
2:00 a.m. I’m a highly sensitive sleeper who can sleep only in total
silence and darkness, while my sister could probably sleep through a
natural disaster.

At times, after I’ve laid in bed for hours waiting for her to turn off
the light, my frustration reaches a climax and I end up shouting at
her. Of course, things never end up well—she becomes even more
stubborn, and I end up agitating myself to no end. Anger and
impatience never helps.

The writer of Proverbs 15:1 advises, “A gentle answer turns away
wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.” Indeed, whenever I ignore
this gentle reminder of the Holy Spirit, and instead erupt in anger
and impatience, my sister reacts in kind. But when I commit my
attitude and response to the Lord, such as by speaking softly to her
and praying for patience, more often than not, the peace is kept.

As I learn to trust in and obey the power and wisdom of His word, I’m
learning what it means to endure patiently in the face of
confrontation—confrontation which can easily trigger a knee-jerk
response leading to sin, or to a peaceful resolution made in love.

Another passage from James 1:19-20 provides wise counsel: “Everyone
should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry,
because human anger does not produce the righteousness that God
desires.”



“Bear with each other and forgive one another if any of you has a
grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord forgave you.”
(Colossians 3:13) Forgiveness means letting go of your right to exact
revenge, and letting God take care of justice.

In the past, whenever I got into major arguments with my sister or
even with my mum, I would seethe and stew in my anger. I would tell
myself that I’d never forgive them or forget what they did, and that I
would hold this grudge against them until they begged me for
forgiveness.

In the end, bearing grudges against my sister didn’t affect her life
as much as it affected mine. Though I thought that I could exact my
revenge through ignoring her or withholding my forgiveness, I now
realize that the only person I was hurting and punishing was myself.

I’ve been reminded and humbled by the knowledge that all of us have
sinned thoroughly against our holy and perfect Father. Though we were
dead in our sins, He made us alive together with Christ. It is by only
God’s grace that we have been saved (Ephesians 2:4-7). In light of the
immeasurable sins we have committed against God, how much more should
we forgive the little wrongs that our siblings have done towards us!
In light of the immeasurable sins we have committed against God, how
much more should we forgive the little wrongs that our siblings have
done towards us!

Jesus tells us, “For if you forgive other people when they sin against
you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not
forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins”
(Matthew 6:14-15).

Though it can be hard for me to forgive my sister at times, I will
pray and ask for God’s grace to enable me to release my heavy burden
of anger, and to forgive freely, just as He has freely forgiven us.



All of us have flaws and faults. And when you put two people in the
same place, anger, jealousy, and even hatred can occur. Consider Cain
and Abel, the very first pair of siblings to walk this earth. Filled
with resentment and bitterness, Cain killed his brother, and
unabashedly lied about it to God.

From the very beginning, all of us have sinned and fallen short of the
glory of God. Yet, throughout history, God has reminded His people,
time and time again, to love others.

When asked what the greatest commandment was, Jesus replied: “The most
important one is this: ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is
one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul
and with all your mind and with all your strength.’ The second is
this: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no commandment
greater than these” (Mark 12:30-31).

Jesus also said in John 13:34, “A new command I give you: Love one
another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another”. I
realized that if I really wanted to obey Jesus’ commandment to love
others—be it a sibling, a neighbour, or an enemy—then loving my sister
is a good place to start.

I have found that when I remember His tenderhearted mercy and
steadfast love that He has shown me, His grace naturally flows and
helps me to relate to my sister with gentleness, grace, and love. I
have found that when I remember His tenderhearted mercy and steadfast
love that He has shown me, His grace naturally flows and helps me to
relate to my sister with gentleness, grace, and love. This means that
instead of losing my temper with her, I am guided by the Holy Spirit
towards keeping the peace with her. The Spirit guards my heart against
any hostility I may feel.

Also, instead of dwelling on her perceived wrongs against me, I try to
put myself in her shoes, and try to adapt to her. For example, she
might sleep late because she has an upcoming assignment, or she’s more
productive in the nights, or simply because she’s naturally inclined
to sleep later.

This can sometimes mean that I lose a little sleep. But I can always
invest in a good pair of earplugs and an eye mask. Or I can camp out
in the living room for a night or two until she’s done with her
assignment.

Whenever something my sister does irks me, I now ask myself if there’s
a good reason for it. And if there doesn’t seem to be one, then I pray
and ask for God’s grace to be patient. After all, He shows us grace
even when we are unreasonable, irrational and selfish.

I believe that the more we strive to love our siblings like our Lord
and Saviour loved us, the more we will grasp the weight of our own
inadequacies and the preciousness of His patience, forgiveness, and
love towards us.

Photo credit: kristi ♡ / Foter / CC BY-NC-SA



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



