http://ymi.today/2015/08/the-importance-of-healing-from-within/

The Importance of Healing from Within

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joy-Ann Wood, West Indies

If an athlete is injured during training or competition, he will need
time to recuperate in order to regain his form. Depending on the
severity of the injury, the recovery process may involve applying an
ice pack to the affected area, treating it—which may include cleaning
the wound and stitching it up—or simply, resting. Of course, it’s only
human to get upset and frustrated during this downtime where one isn’t
able to train or compete.

On my road to recovery following an operation to remove fibroids from
my womb, many people told me that while I might feel fine and things
may look normal on the outside, I had to give time to allow for full
internal recovery. “Rest. Take it easy. No lifting”, they would say,
lest I aggravate the injury.

As I reflected on their advice, it made me realize how we sometimes
neglect the importance of being healed on the inside. Many of us walk
around appearing fine on the outside, but we’re probably still hurting
on the inside—from some past episode or situation that we haven’t
quite resolved. Many of us walk around appearing fine on the outside,
but we’re probably still hurting on the inside—from some past episode
or situation that we haven’t quite resolved. Anger, bitterness, and
hate may be festering beneath the surface.

God sees and knows everything. He wants to heal us completely—body and
soul. In the recovery process, we can surrender our hurts to Him. As
hard as it will be, this is something that we must do in order to live
lives pleasing to God. We need to humble ourselves and ask God to heal
our hurts so that we can wholeheartedly forgive those who’ve wronged
us. Once we apply the right ointments and astringents to the area, the
wound heals on the inside and dries up on the outside.

Today, God wants to prevent us from aggravating the injury and treat
the internal wound. He wants to apply the warmth of His love to our
hearts, providing the balm of peace so that our internal hurts can
completely heal and our lives will testify of His goodness and grace.

