http://ymi.today/2015/06/3-ways-to-reconcile-our-differences/

3 Ways to Reconcile Our Differences

Author: by Tracy Phua

Elton John was right in his song, “Sorry Seems to be the Hardest
Word”. It is always hard to say “sorry” in an argument.

I can attest to that because whenever I find myself in an argument
with my husband, I often find myself chewing my lower lip and crossing
my arms over my chest. I know that I should apologize first, but I
always struggle to bring myself to do it. Thankfully, I have a husband
who (bless his heart) often apologizes before I do. But I recognize
that this is something I need to work on—especially when I’m the one
in the wrong!

While our marriage isn’t perfect (trust me when I say that it’s a
struggle to get through the conflicts), we have developed three ways
to work out our differences, which I’d like to share. It’s going to be
tough, but it’s totally worth it.

1. Make up before the day ends My husband and I have made it a point
to clear up whatever misunderstandings or conflicts we have by the end
of the day. We take Ephesians 4:26 very literally. It says: “‘In your
anger do not sin’: Do not let the sun go down while you are still
angry”. Another reason to resolve our conflicts quickly is that I have
to see my husband every day for the rest of my life. I can’t stand
awkward silences and cold wars, so I reckon that it would be much
easier to sort out the disagreement sooner rather than later!

2. Delete the “D-word” We promised not to mention the word “divorce”.
It should not be, and is never a solution to marital conflict. As
Jesus explained to the Pharisees in Matthew 19, divorce was something
God had permitted only in light of the Israelites’ hard hearts (v. 8).
The only reason to justify a divorce was adultery, and even then, it
was merely permitted, not encouraged. A marriage needs two people to
work at it, and in cases of adultery, it is sometimes hard to
determine who the victim is. A biblical response should be to forgive.
This can be extremely difficult, but it is what Christ commands us to
do.

3. Always forgive I laughed when I first heard the joke, “Marriage is
a relationship in which one person is always right, and the other is a
husband.” But I admit that most of the time, I actually take that
statement quite seriously. Apart from my husband, I also struggle to
forgive others. Forgiveness can be a painful process, but it needs to
be done. Ephesians 4:32 reads, “Be kind and compassionate to one
another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.” I
cannot imagine how God can forgive the people who crucified Jesus.
More importantly, I cannot imagine how God can forgive me when I
disobey Him time and time again. I’m not that different from the
Pharisees, after all. The love and grace that He has shown me humbles
me and spurs me on to forgive, time and time again.

I’ve learned that “sorry” might be a hard word to say during
conflicts, but sometimes, the words “I forgive you” can be even
harder. Through my struggles to forgive, I’ve come to realize that at
the end of the day, whatever differences we have are not really
irreconcilable. What it takes is some humility, some forgiveness, and
plenty of faith in our living God.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Choices“



Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



