http://ymi.today/2017/02/marriage-does-not-bring-a-happy-ending/

Marriage Does Not Bring a Happy Ending

Author: by Kezia Lewis

I had a difficult conversation with a friend about her upcoming
wedding not too long ago. Defending her love for her fiancée, she
asserted, “He deserves a second chance. He deserves to be happy and
have a happy ending.”

A happy ending. Those words drummed a familiar beat in my heart.

For years, I was convinced that if I found someone who would vow to
love me forever, I could finally be happy. The fact that my parents
were not married amplified this belief. To me, marriage signified the
end of all my struggles in the search for true love—a happy ending.
Thus, I felt the pressure to get married, to find “the one” who would
hand me my happy ending.

With this pressure came an incessant and belligerent voice that kept
pounding lies into my head: “Singleness is failure. Singleness means a
lifetime of loneliness and misery. Singleness means you are
incomplete.”

This deep-seated erroneous belief festered through the years and led
me into many unhealthy relationships. Our culture today nurtures this
warped idea of love and marriage. We have come to expect another
person to make us whole and to provide us with our desperate need for
eternal love and security. We expect marriage to complete us. We marry
because we want to be happy. When we find ourselves unhappy in a
marriage, we begin to look for a replacement either in a new person or
new experiences, only to discover that neither can truly fulfill what
our souls are truly hungry for. Why? Because of this simple, absolute
truth: we are a broken people.

Somehow, we have learned to live outside of that truth. We have
forgotten that we are bound to make mistakes and to fail each other.
Whether or not we mean to hurt each other, it’s inevitable. We can
never be enough for anyone, nor is anyone ever going to be enough for
us. Our brokenness guarantees that.

Dr. Val Gonzales, a pastor, licensed counselor and friend, once
proposed an idea about marriage that had me mulling over for a few
nights. He said, “Marriage is not a vehicle to happiness. It is wrong
to think this way: I will marry, so I will be happy. It should be: I
am happy, so now I will marry.”

Don’t get me wrong: we can find happiness in our marriages. But it is
not a guarantee. And more often than not, happiness comes as a by-
product of our relationship with God. If our hope and our joy is
misplaced, our unrealistic expectations of each other will likely lead
to a marriage’s eventual end as is the case in so many of our
marriages today.



I used to ask, “How do I know who my future husband is?” In between
failed relationships, I came to see how foolish I was in pursuing true
joy in another broken person. I subsequently learned to relinquish to
God any claims I had for the right to be happy or to be married. When
I finally learned to release this idol, that’s when I realized the
better question was, “How do I know if I should get marry and not
remain single?” I wanted God to take charge. And He did.

God shattered to pieces nearly all the foundations I stood on about
who I was, who my family was, who my friends were, and who He was.
Then He rebuilt them into quite possibly the most beautiful ground I
could root my life on—the bedrock of Jesus’ love. He ushered my steps
to a calling that spread like wildfire in my whole being: go and serve
Him in the mission field.

Decision after decision I made from that point onwards—and yes,
including my marriage—fell along the lines of this radical call. When
my husband proposed to me and I said yes, there was not only immense
peace but also clarity about what that meant. God made it clear to me
that marriage would be good for me because I had found who I really
am: whole, happy, and secure in Him. I was ready to commit to a
covenant relationship intended to last a lifetime.



Many would probably applaud my friend’s declaration of love. But I
would hesitate to do so, for it suggests that her future husband’s
happiness hinges on her. No matter how good we are at making people
happy, we all have our limits, because we are a flawed, limited
people. It is dangerous to assume responsibility for another person’s
happiness.

At times, we get tired and weary of life. Sure, we should work towards
meeting the needs of our spouses, but we cannot expect ourselves to
fulfill this perfectly all the time, nor should we demand of them the
duty of meeting ours.

No one can fill that oh-so-familiar void in our hearts but Jesus.
Because that deep hole we try to fill with fleeting moments of warmth
and happiness is God-shaped. He is the solitary piece that can
complete the puzzle of our lives and our identity.

We can try to root our happiness in another person’s heart, and it may
give us, for a time, what we need. But as life happens, we’d probably
realize that he is not big enough to handle his own longings and
yours.

Only Jesus can do it. Let His love consume you and make you whole. I
promise: you will be filled to the full.



Kezia resides with her husband, Jason, in Krabi, Thailand where she
serves alongside him in the ministry under Sowers International and
teaches English at a local Thai school. She and her sister were named
by her mom (who has not read the Bible before that) after two of Job’s
new daughters (Job 42:14). She sees that as God telling her she is
“His daughter.” She loves to call God as Father for He is that to her.
She feels particularly calm when it rains and loves to be near any
body of water.

She blogs at kezia-lewis.com.



