http://ymi.today/2016/02/when-i-was-blessed-to-be-sick/

When I was Blessed to be Sick

Author: by Contributor

Written by Clare H, Singapore

Recently, I was blessed to be down for a few days with a bad flu, sore
throat, and fever.

Yes, you read it right. I was blessed and I thank God to have been
down for those few days.

Please don’t get me wrong. I wasn’t thankful to be sick so I could
escape work. In fact, I’ve been unemployed for nine months now. Being
sick meant that I had to miss a reunion dinner which I had been
looking forward to, with a group of elderly folks whom my husband and
I had befriended six months ago. Due to the viral attack, I also had
to be absent from my church’s monthly prayer and praise session, which
I really wanted to attend as it was the first one for the year.

During those few days, I felt physically drained, and my muscles,
joints, throat, head, and back ached badly, making sleeping an arduous
affair. As I couldn’t lie down flat, I could only slouch in my couch,
tossing and turning every so often to alleviate the aches. There was
so much to complain about and nothing to be thankful for. Or was
there?

Because of the headache, I wasn’t in the mood to watch television, nor
was I in the frame of mind to read a book. The only thing I could do
was close my eyes . . . and spend time with God.

The moment I did that, my mind drifted back to the last time I spent
time with God. Sure, I pray daily, worship often, read the Bible,
attend church, am active in a ministry, and attend cell group
meetings. But when was the last time I really spent time with God?
Sure, I pray daily, worship often, read the Bible, attend church, am
active in a ministry, and attend cell group meetings. But when was the
last time I really spent time with God? That was a very long time ago.

As I lay on my couch, God eased some of the pain, and I felt a sense
of stillness and warmth surround me. It was as if someone was hugging
me. I thought about what God had told me some months back—to be a
“runner” for Him and bring His wandering sheep back to Him. I was also
reminded of my duty as a wife, created to be my husband’s helper. God
brought to mind the times when my husband had to complete certain
tasks on his own because I had failed to help and support him. Deeply
convicted, I repented and asked the Lord to teach me and give me the
wisdom to be a godly wife.

It’s been only a few days since I’ve recovered, but I now see the
kitchen as my new God-assigned office and my household as my field.
Things which I once saw as daily tasks are now God-given tasks to me.
In the days ahead, I also plan to meet people God had brought to my
mind during my quiet time with Him. My eyes have been opened because I
had been sick and had spent time with the Lord.

Now, ‭‭I wake up every day with a new awareness that in order to
perform my God-given tasks and bear fruit, I need to abide in the
Lord. Jesus said, “I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain
in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do
nothing” (‭‭John‬ ‭15:5‭‬‬‬‬‬). ‬‬‬‬To abide in Him, I need to know
Him. And to know Him, I need to spend time with Him. ‬‬‬‬‬‬

I pray that you too will join me in spending time with the Lord.

