http://ymi.today/2016/09/africa-the-secret-behind-faith-and-hope/

Africa: The Secret Behind Faith and Hope

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

Whenever I visit other continents, a question I am often asked is,
“What is the hidden secret behind faith and hope in Africa?”

That’s when I share about the power of thanksgiving and prayer—the
fuel that drives the church in Africa towards faith and hope.

Living in Nigeria, which was ranked the most optimistic country in the
world in 2011 and the 6th happiest country in Africa in 2016, I’ve
learned that it’s often not about how rich we appear on the outside,
but how rich we are on the inside. Regardless of our situation, we
always have a choice: to wallow in despair or hope for the best; to
blame our environment or let it build our character; to complain all
the time or rejoice and give thanks for every positive outcome.

Growing up, my family was considered “privileged” by many because both
my parents held jobs to support the family. Even then, we lived in a
three-bedroom flat which didn’t have tap water; electricity came
sporadically. In the absence of power, we used lanterns and would
often sleep outdoors, enjoying nature and letting the cool breeze blow
over us.

Like many families, I grew up knowing hunger and learned, at an early
age, to speak to God and have faith in Him. I was five years old when
I received Christ. And at that age, I began to understand why my
mother fed my siblings and me a tablespoon of boiled beans for
breakfast and not herself. I understood why neighbors found it amusing
that my mom had to loan salt in order to cook our meals. I understood
why my elder sister would harvest fruit from our little garden so she
could sell them to pupils in school in order to get enough money for
us to buy lunch. I understood why the cattle herder was allowed to
graze his cows on our front lawn in exchange for fresh cow’s milk. I
understood why we only got new clothes during Christmas. I understood
why we scavenged harvested farm lands for excess potatoes and
groundnuts. I also understood why we had to search for water every day
from a well or borehole.

Yet, I was not embittered by these. I always had faith that God would
see my family through and provide for us daily (Psalm 37:19).

My story is not very different from many others throughout my
continent. Despite the high percentage of unemployment and myriad of
socio-economic issues all around me, I have witnessed people finding
joy in sharing their “one tablespoon of beans” with other neighbors in
need. I have seen families and communities coming together to face
challenges, believing wholeheartedly that despite difficulties,
nothing would separate them from God’s love (Romans 8:31-39). I’ve
also seen brothers and sisters in Christ clinging onto hope amid the
impossible, trusting in the only name that matters (Acts 4:12). I’ve
also seen brothers and sisters in Christ clinging onto hope amid the
impossible, trusting in the only name that matters (Acts 4:12).

And I have witnessed miracles of provision like those in the Bible
because of an intense faith in God whose might knows no bounds. I have
seen God come through for brothers and sisters who would sacrificially
give their all, down to the last penny for the furtherance of the
gospel.

Over the course of my life, I have found that the need to pray for
tomorrow’s provision produces such an urgency for God in the life of a
Christian that it brings the Lord’s Prayer (Matthew 6:9-16) to life.
“Give us our daily bread” takes on a whole new meaning. Trusting in
God becomes real. Relying on Him for guidance, security, sustenance
and sanity brings on an intimacy that living in abundance often does
not evoke.

God takes us through trials in order to draw us closer to Him. For
that, I rejoice and am thankful to have been born in Nigeria.

