http://ymi.today/2015/11/3-steps-to-take-when-you-face-a-problem/

3 Steps to Take When You Face a Problem

Author: by Vania Tan

“Why is the bus taking so long to arrive?”

“Why didn’t I charge my phone last night?”

Have you ever noticed how we can get so bothered by the smallest of
problems?

Or we may be facing more complex problems that have to do with our
personal lives, family, friends, or work. Perhaps we or our loved ones
are ill, or we are dealing with conflict in relationships around us.

That’s when we feel like we just want to crawl back into our own
little shell and mope about our problems—or hope that they will
magically disappear.

But here’s something to keep in mind: The longer we allow our thoughts
and emotions to simmer and plague us, the bigger our problems may seem
to grow—disproportionately. Over time, it may reduce God’s power in
our eyes, and make us lose sight of other important things in life.

Of course, if our problems are really small—like a phone with a flat
battery or a late bus—we should just remind ourselves to stop
complaining to every person we bump and stop wallowing in self-pity.
We need to remember to be thankful for what we have, and stop
complaining about the things we don’t.

But when our problems are bigger and more complex, it can be harder to
avoid being overwhelmed.

Here’s three steps I’ve found that have worked for me:



Most of us know how and when to console others when they are hurting.
But when we’re the ones placed in a distressing situation, we forget
to seek support and comfort from others. We forget that our friends
are always ready to console us too.

Maybe it’s time we open up and share. God created man for interaction
and relationships, so that we can share our load with one another. We
can comfort others and receive comfort, just as we receive comfort
from God (2 Corinthians 1:4). The great king David did not hesitate to
go to his close friend Jonathan when he was troubled, and Jesus too
asked His disciples to be with Him in His last moments.

So don’t feel like you need to walk alone in your problems: confide in
a close friend, a mentor, or someone who can encourage you or give you
advice. Take time to commit your problems to the Lord together, and
pray together today.



Problems can be really painful and difficult to bear, but they can
also grow our character and draw us closer to God. Even though we may
not know why they happen, we can take some comfort in the knowledge
that they will produce perseverance in us. Crises can teach us
valuable lessons, such as learning to let go of our doubts and
worries, and to trust in God.

If you find yourself in a difficult situation, hold on to the promise
that while the going may be tough now, you will emerge from it
stronger and better, just as gold is tested by fire. If you find
yourself in a difficult situation, hold on to the promise that while
the going may be tough now, you will emerge from it stronger and
better, just as gold is tested by fire. And remember that God will not
allow you be tested beyond what you can bear (1 Corinthians 10:13).

That’s why the Bible says, “Consider it pure joy, my brothers and
sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that
the testing of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance
finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking
anything” (James 1:2–4).



If you find yourself asking, “Why isn’t there someone who knows just
how I feel?” or “Where is the light at the end of this tunnel?”,
remember that God holds all the answers. He understands our every
struggle and our every thought, and He is fully aware of our
limitations.

Perhaps it can be hard to hold on to this truth—it’s one thing to know
it, and another thing to actually believe in it. But just as we
believe that we were saved by God’s grace, we need to remind ourselves
that we believe in all-powerful, all-loving God who can help us
through the toughest times and deliver us in His way and in His time.

Ultimately, we will not be spared from difficulties in our lives on
earth. But we know that we have a God who cares for us. “Humble
yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the
proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him,
because he cares for you” (1 Peter 5:6-7).



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Life Hacks“



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



