http://ymi.today/2017/09/when-god-allows-unhappy-moments-to-take-
place/

When God Allows Unhappy Moments To Take Place

Author: by Contributor

Written by Gracella Sofiani Mingkid, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa
Indonesia

“I can’t tell you about my unhappy moments because I’ve never
experienced any before,” my friend said. We were having a small group
discussion and were taking turns to share about at least three moments
in our lives that made us unhappy.

I almost couldn’t believe her reply. “Wow, what an amazing life she
must have,” I thought. And yet, a part of me couldn’t help but wonder,
“Really, God? Is it possible that someone is never unhappy?”

I have had my fair share of unhappy moments. In eleventh grade, I was
ranked third in class for the very first time. I know this may sound
odd, but I was sad because I had always attained first place. I was a
perfectionist especially when it came to grades—I had to be the best.

I blamed myself for failing to stay in first place and repeatedly
chided myself for not studying hard enough. The day I received my
results, I locked myself in my room and cried.

When I told my friends about how disappointed I was in myself, they
told me off for overreacting over a “small difference”. What my
friends didn’t realize was how much this “small difference” meant to
me.

When the new academic year started, I pushed myself even harder to do
well. It was not easy at all. I had lost my confidence and believed
that my friends didn’t look up to me anymore. Some of them had moved
to another study group.

During my time in college, God allowed me to go through the same
struggle again. While there were times I did get a perfect score,
there were also times when I didn’t get a satisfying score, no matter
how hard I tried. The perfectionist in me still wasn’t used to
failure, and I went through the same set of emotions again and again.

I’ve always been ready to share my testimony of God’s goodness.
However, whenever I didn’t perform as well as I expected, I couldn’t
bring myself to testify about His grace and goodness. In fact, when I
think about it, most of the testimonies I’ve heard have been about
thanking God for something good, such as good health or good scores in
school. I’m sure I’m not alone.

Of course, we are to glorify God for everything He has done for us.
But what if someone who just got fired from his job, is suffering from
last-stage cancer or who has failed his final examination were to ask
you, Does that mean God does not love me?, how would you answer them?

I’ve heard one pastor suggest that we can give better testimonies by
adding “one way” in front of our sentences. For example, one way God
shows me His kindness is by giving me excellent scores. One way He
shows me His love is by giving me good health or a good job. By
recognizing that God uses different ways and means to bless us, we are
reminding ourselves that God can and will display His love and
kindness to us in many ways.

God may not always give us what—according to our perspective—is good
and extraordinary. When Job was suffering, his wife asked him to curse
God. Job’s response was, “Shall we accept good from God, and not
trouble?” (Job 2:10). We know that in all things God works for the
good of those who love him (Romans 8:28).

As Christians, we are to expect that our lives are not going to be
smooth-sailing. God may use disappointment, heartache, defeat, and
loss to show us that He will love us no matter what. In fact, that is
what He did with me. God shaped me by putting me right at the bottom.
He allowed me to experience disappointment and defeat.

The pain helped me understand His purpose. He showed me the correct
attitude I should have in the face of disappointment. I became less
result-oriented and more process-oriented. Appreciation of the process
itself—when it comes to study or work—makes it easier for me to accept
my failures and unfulfilled expectations or wishes.

A story of a high schooler who felt depressed because of her
perfectionism may sound silly. But that’s exactly how she learned
patience, self-control, and the correct attitude. Through this
experience, she realized how much God loves her, and that God has the
full authority to shape and purify her life. She learned to rely on
God’s mighty hand and wisdom.

