http://ymi.today/2015/07/how-i-managed-doubt-in-my-life/

How I Managed Doubt In My Life

Author: by Shawn Quah

When I was in primary school, I used to stammer. This speech
impediment hampered my conversations with friends, teachers, and
parents, leaving me with feelings of inadequacy.

I started having doubts about whether I would ever have friends. Some
people avoided talking to me as they didn’t have the patience to wait
for me to complete my sentences. Others tried their best to finish my
sentences for me, but it only made things worse and I continued to
feel sorry for myself. Thankfully, the stammering stopped by the time
I hit my teenage years.

Every so often, I wonder what it would have been like if I had
continued stammering until today. Would I still have turned out the
way I am today? Would I have fewer friends? Would I have become a
person plagued by feelings of doubt and inferiority?

Most of us are no stranger to doubts in life. Even great men of faith
like Moses and Gideon suffered from a lack of confidence at first: the
former about his slowness of speech (Exodus 4:10) and the latter about
his ability to deliver Israel from the Midianites (Judges 6:36–40).
Despite this, the Lord was constantly with them, leading, encouraging,
and strengthening them.

Eventually, both Moses and Gideon saw the power and majesty of God
when He used them—despite their inadequacies—to accomplish His
purposes. While we probably will not see such direct intervention by
the Lord today, He remains by our side through difficult times.

Focusing on the One who has promised to be with us and guide us can
spare us a lot of unnecessary anxiety and heartache. The following
truths have helped me manage doubt in my own life:

1. Trust that the Lord is in control of everything. God has planned
everything since the beginning of time; everything can be transformed
by Him into something good. Knowing this has helped me to accept that
whatever my inadequacies, God can still use them for His glory. I
learned this when I left my last job in the IT industry in 2012 and
spent the next 10 months without one. During that period, I came to
accept Christ and started to help out in my Church’s school
ministry—despite knowing nothing about handling kids or what it takes
to serve in a ministry.

2. Pray to the Lord for wisdom and guidance. We can’t get through the
uncertainties and trials of life without divine wisdom and guidance.
Fortunately, God promised to give us wisdom if we asked, “If any of
you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all
without finding fault, and it will be given to you” (James 1:5). After
nine months of being unemployed, I asked God for wisdom and guidance
as to whether I should go back to my old job—and old way of life—or to
do something else entirely. Today I am working in a place I would
never have thought of in the past, doing a role I never knew I could,
and yet finding joy in it, by the grace of God.

3. Share your struggles with your brothers and sisters in Christ.
Fellowship with other believers should never be taken lightly. It is
something worth making time to do. In the past, I used to believe that
I could solve everything on my own. But when doubts arose in my mind
as to whether I should take up a job in a Christian organization, it
was by sharing my struggles and doubts with a fellow brother or sister
and hearing their experiences and counsel that gave me the confidence
and assurance to take up the job. I still remember their words and
advice to this day and I thank God for them. Christian community is
God-given and we should help to bear each other’s burdens and pray for
one another.

The world today teaches us to face our doubts by being confident in
who we are and by trusting in ourselves. But experience has shown me
this is never enough. It is only with God’s help that we can truly
overcome our doubt—be it through direct intervention or the
encouragement of other believers. Let’s look to the only One who will
never fail.

Photo credit: comeonandorra / Foter / CC BY-NC



Shawn is a laid back friendly person, who loves online gaming and the
opportunity it brings in meeting new people across the world. He loves
eating and though his favorite food is a well-kept secret, we have it
on good authority that it’s either Hor Fun or Char Kway Teow. He
enjoys writing poetry in his free time and hopes that the Lord will
continue to inspire him each and every day. Despite the fleeting and
uncertain nature of life, his fondest wish is to continue living it in
service to the family he has come to love dearly—God’s family.

Read more of his writings at his blog.



