http://ymi.today/2017/04/my-daily-struggle-against-negative-thoughts/

My Daily Struggle Against Negative Thoughts

Author: by Contributor

Written By Kim Cheung, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

I used to feel like I was on an emotional roller-coaster
ride—experiencing a huge range of ups and downs in just one day.

In a typical day, I would wake up to a bright and sunny morning that
put me in a good mood. Feeling that life was great and all was rosy, I
might even buy some flowers to brighten up my room. However, these
feelings of happiness wouldn’t last. By afternoon, I would be feeling
so down that life itself would seem meaningless and tiring. Ask me why
this drastic change, and I wouldn’t have been able to give you an
answer. It could be due to something small that frustrated me, or just
a helpless feeling of moodiness that day.

I used to experience these feelings almost daily. They poured on me
like a huge storm, leaving me helpless and overwhelmed. I would try to
get rid of my thoughts by sleeping early or, if I was unable to do so,
calling a friend for a chat. However, these conversations would
inevitably end up with dispiriting talk and my friends sharing the
same feelings of depression.

The worst thing about having such emotions was that they made it hard
to concentrate fully on reading God’s Word. At times like these, I
tended to give up reading the Bible entirely. At most, I would just
ask for friends to keep me in prayer. This often left me crippled with
guilt. “Don’t you find joy in the Lord? If so, why are you still so
depressed?” I would chide myself. “Look at your pitiful self! You must
be in this state because of your lack of spirituality!” These voices
in my head would plunge me into an even deeper abyss of negative
thoughts and feelings.

I knew this was the work of Satan attacking me at my weakest point. It
was a cycle that would repeat itself and leave me like a weak lamb
awaiting slaughter.

One day, I decided that I had enough. It was clear that God had told
me to trust Him and rely on His strength. That’s’ when I realized that
it is only when we put on the full armor of God, that we can take our
stand against the devil’s evil schemes (Ephesians 6:10-11). I resolved
not to be a victim of self-pity. Instead, I decided to take up the
sword of the Spirit and fight back (Ephesians 6:17). Here are some
practical things I did that I found helpful:



“Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer
and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the
peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your
hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.” (Philippians 4:6-7)

This verse encouraged me and I decided to stop avoiding prayer. I
wouldn’t hide from my pessimistic feelings or deny that they were
there. Instead, I would admit that my lack of desire to pray was due
to these feelings and ask the Holy Spirit to calm my heart. When these
feelings continued to harass me, I called on Jesus’ name and commanded
them to leave my heart.

I personally found such prayers very helpful. The Lord would comfort
me and give me a sense of peace. I also came to realize that when I
didn’t feel like praying, it was because I was ashamed; I shouldered
all my burdens and found it difficult to bring them before the Lord. I
learned that in times of distress, the only thing we desperately need
is the Lord to change our hearts.



After the Holy Spirit had taken those negative feelings away from me,
I needed something to fill the cavity within. I desperately needed the
Word of God to fill me.

That’s when I started to read Bible passages and take my time to think
about what God wanted me to learn. I wanted His Word to be deeply
etched in my heart.

In Philippians 4:13, Paul says that because of Christ, he can be
joyful always: “I can do all things through him who gives me
strength”. In Revelation 21:3-4, John reminds us about the new heaven
and new earth that we can anticipate: “God himself will be with them
and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will
be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of
things has passed away.”

Reading these passages gave me great comfort. Through meditating on
God’s Word, I came to understand it in a clearer way and was able to
stand more firmly in its truths.

Ultimately, I believe that daily fellowship with God is important and
should not be neglected. It is crucial to set aside a fixed time every
day to spend time reading the Bible.

I must admit that I’m not an early riser. Hence, the evenings are a
great time for me to read the Word. Recently, I have been training
myself to be diligent in prayer. I keep a small book to record my
prayers to the Lord, as well as people I pray for individually during
my personal time with the Lord.

Having a fixed time to spend with the Lord every day has helped me
tremendously in my spiritual growth. My time with Him has taught me
that it is only when we have an intimate and personal relationship
with Him, that we can resist the strong temptation to wallow in our
own negative thoughts and feelings.

If you see yourself in the “old” me, I would like to challenge you to
have no fear, for Jesus has already overcome everything­­—even
death—for us. Guard yourself from the devil’s sly tricks and put on
the full armor of God to fight him. May we learn to rely only on Him
and become strong in the Lord.

