http://ymi.today/2017/10/how-to-build-authentic-relationships/

How To Build Authentic Relationships

Author: by Contributor

Written By Blake Wisz, USA

In the world of instant messaging, “emojis” and “likes”, it’s easy to
have a lot of “friends” but never have honest or encouraging
conversations with them.

Often, while listening to others while I sip my cup of coffee, I can’t
help but think, “What do they really need to talk about?” We tend to
dance around the conversation we really want to have, perhaps to
preserve our relationships and avoid points of tension or conflict.

As an extrovert, I’ve always wanted deep-rooted relationships with my
friends. I believe there needs to be a sense of openness in
relationships, so that we can open the door to an honest conversation.

There have been times, however, when I’ve probably put too much
pressure on others to share things they might not be ready or willing
to share because of my candor. It can be hard to admit the
shortcomings, anxieties, frustrations, and struggles in our lives to
another person. But what I’ve learned is that overcoming these initial
hurdles can build up endurance and authenticity in our relationships.



During this season of life, I’ve come to realize that I tend to share
with others about God’s grace and love but do not allow those same
truths to soak deep down in my own life. The feeling of needing to
perform, to do things perfectly, and to never make a mistake are some
pressures I can put on myself which I don’t often talk about.

It has also exposed the need to deal with my inner struggle against
perfectionism and to be open with others about the good, the bad, and
the ugly in my own journey. I’ve found that if I am truly honest with
people about my struggles, authentic relationships can be built.



One of the best ways to grow our relationships is to put others’
troubles, wants, and needs before our own. A letter by the Apostle
Paul has challenged me to pursue authentic relationships from a place
of encouragement and understanding of our unity in Christ.

While jailed in Rome for proclaiming the gospel, Paul wrote to his
friends in Philippi (modern-day Greece), saying: “Therefore if you
have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if any comfort
from his love, if any common sharing in the spirit, if any tenderness
and compassion, then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having
the same love, being one in spirit and of one mind. Do nothing out of
selfish ambition or vain conceit. Rather, in humility value others
above yourselves, not looking to your own interests but each of you to
the interests of the others.” (Philippians 2:1-4)

For me, I’m learning to focus on actively listening, being present in
the moment, and letting others have my total attention.

Early this year, I wrote a mission statement on my bathroom mirror
that read, “Encourage others”, because I knew I needed to change my
approach. My sensitivity radar was out of whack and I realized that I
had not done enough to help others “do their thing”, even though the
latter has always been something that brings me the most joy.

I can also use what I’ve experienced in my life to encourage those in
my sphere of influence—the guy sitting next to me at the coffee shop,
a co-worker, family member, or that person in a social media bubble.
And I have been learning that when I encourage others from a place of
compassion and humility—by putting their needs before my own by
actively listening or sharing a kind word—I am stepping into a love
designed by God and by which the world will know Him. And I have been
learning that when I encourage others from a place of compassion and
humility—by putting their needs before my own by actively listening or
sharing a kind word—I am stepping into a love designed by God and by
which the world will know Him. In that space, authentic relationships
are rooted and can blossom in that space.

As I look at my own life, I see the value of authentic relationships.
My friend Jamie is a passionate photographer, husband, and soon-to-be
father. Our friendship started in a local coffee shop, where we talked
shop about photography.

Since then, we have traveled to different parts of the world together
with our wives. Our personalities are vastly different, but we share
plenty in common. We graduated from Cornerstone University, married
our college sweethearts, and lost our fathers suddenly. Jamie and I
were fortunate that our common interests made it easy to start a
conversation. We both knew we were working through some trials—the
biggest of which was the loss of a loved one. We’ve been honest to one
another, always transparent about what is going on in our lives.

In the Bible, one of the words used for friend in the original Greek
translation is the word Adelphos, which has been interpreted as, “a
fellow believer, united to another by the bond of affection”. Jamie
and I share in Adelphos which drives us to bring out the best in one
another and encourage one another. If we had never been honest or
willing to wear our raw emotions on our sleeves, we would have missed
out on the true support of a friend.

