http://ymi.today/2017/02/the-day-i-compared-my-mum-to-a-crow/

The Day I Compared My Mum to a Crow

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

“My mother is like a watchful crow” began the poem I had written as a
gift for my mom. I was convinced it would bring her tears of
joy—amazed by the exquisite talent of her 7-year old daughter.

In reality, my mom impressively stifled a laugh, then sputtered her
appreciation for my little “sonnet”. Somehow, she managed to look past
being compared to a crow and focus on the gratitude I was attempting
to show for her dependable presence.

In the same way, God looks directly at our hearts (1 Samuel 16:7), and
receives the little gifts we offer Him as tokens of infinite worth.
While we can’t earn God’s love, no act of service that overflows from
a grateful heart will slip by unnoticed.

In this coming year, let’s prayerfully strive to replicate God’s
attitude in how we accept others’ presents.

Perhaps you’re getting ready to tackle your list of “thank you” notes,
and wondering how you can sincerely express gratitude to Aunt Betty
for the hand-croqueted, picture-frame she stitched. I don’t think you
can convincingly will your heart to overflow with gratefulness. If you
aren’t seeing the appeal of a fuzzy picture-frame, taking on a tone of
appreciation probably won’t convince anyone. And, you can be sure of
one thing: you aren’t fooling the “Big Man Upstairs”.

So, pray for a change of heart—from one that is focused just on the
present, to one freed to see past the temporary items. Shift the focus
from the gift to the person who gave it to you. Tell the giver exactly
how their presence has impacted you. It doesn’t need to be a dramatic
story about how they convinced you to leave the circus and go back to
school.

Just be honest, such as: “I love the example you provide me of
prioritizing people over activities. You inspire me to do the same, so
I’ve really valued the opportunity of getting to know you better this
year!” And, in your effort to describe the blessings others bring to
your life, take my advice: don’t compare them to a crow.

My mother is like a watchful crow, She sees your every move. She knows
when you are good or bad, Or when you are just you.

She’s always there, Whether you do or don’t need her. But when it
comes time for bed, You know you’ll always see her.

“Poem” by Laura, age 7

