http://ymi.today/2016/01/why-we-must-learn-to-say-no/

Why We Must Learn to Say “No”

Author: by Contributor

Written By Grace Chan, Originally Written in Traditional Chinese

A pastor I know once made this witty remark, “If you don’t fear God,
you have to fear a lot; if you don’t please God, you have to please a
lot.” Having personally experienced the truth of his statements, I
couldn’t agree more. In fact, more often than not, we please those
whom we fear.

I grew up as a “daddy’s girl”, and would follow every instruction from
my parents as well as people of their generation without question. I
was the “good girl” of the family and was adored by whomever I met.
This, however, led to me feeling much social pressure as I grew up. I
felt like I needed to meet the expectation of every person and to
please everybody. And I believed this was the only way I could be
accepted and loved by all.

It was in college in Taiwan that I really started to find it
challenging to keep up with my desire to please people. It was
extremely difficult to say “no” to invitations from seniors to take
part in activities, even though I really did not want to attend any of
them. I was worried that they would be disappointed if I turned them
down, or they were so nice to me that I felt guilty for declining
their invitations. As a result, I started to lose sight of who I
really was—I was so busy trying to please others and meet their
expectations that I started to feel increasingly empty, tired, and
unhappy.

Later on, I realized that everyone has different standards, so it
would be impossible to meet every person’s expectations. When we try
to live according to people’s opinions for fear of being rejected, we
place ourselves under tremendous pressure. The Bible teaches us to
focus on God instead of the opinions of others, and to live for Him
instead of people (Galatians 1:10). And Proverbs 29:25 tells us, “Fear
of man will prove to be a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is
kept safe.”

Abraham is an example. His fear of the Pharaoh of Egypt almost led to
him placing his own wife in another man’s arms. Thankfully, God
intervened on his behalf. When we fear God instead of man, He provides
us the strength to resist pressure to conform to unrealistic
expectations, or to do things that are not biblical. When we fear God
instead of man, He provides us the strength to resist pressure to
conform to unrealistic expectations, or to do things that are not
biblical. Even though we might suffer a little while, I believe that
those who fear the Lord would eventually reap an abundant and peaceful
life.

May all of us be encouraged to say “no” when it’s time to say so.

