http://ymi.today/2017/09/has-god-abandoned-me/

Has God Abandoned Me?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lee HE, Singapore

Have you ever felt God was withholding everything good from you? Have
you ever felt abandoned by God? I definitely have.

Although I didn’t grow up in a Christian family, I went to a mission
school and always believed in the existence of God. I was used to
people telling me that God will always be there for me. But I didn’t
feel that way in recent years.

I had entered into one of the worst junior colleges (JC) in Singapore.
I fell out with my classmates because of some miscommunication. My
then-boyfriend also left me. My life was falling apart.

I felt so abandoned by God. I was suicidal, and would lock myself in
my bedroom every day thinking of ways to kill myself. I wanted to jump
out of my window or overdose on pills but I didn’t have the courage to
end my life.

I knew I needed time to “fix” myself. So, despite objections from my
family members, I took matters into my own hands and dropped out of
school to take a gap year.

It didn’t help that I was going to be baptized in a few weeks. Given
my emotional and psychological state, I did not want to go ahead
initially. But I decided to bite the bullet. After all, I was already
in the last few sessions of Baptism Preparation class and I didn’t
want to redo the class in the future.

Although my decision to be baptized was not motivated by the sincere
intention to declare myself as a born-again Christian, it turned out
to be a blessing in disguise. As part of the baptism process, I had to
appoint my own godparents who would be in-charge of my spiritual well-
being. Not only did I gain a new spiritual family, my godparents
helped me to grow as a Christian.

During my gap year, I took up a stint as an admin assistant in the
same company as my godfather. Whenever I got to work with him directly
or when we went out for lunch, he would always share with me Bible
stories and explain the meaning behind them.

One of the ladies at work whom I was close to was also a Christian.
She repeatedly reassured me that if God wanted to open doors for me,
He would. Hearing that from her convicted me of the reality of God and
brought me to tears.

That was when my heart started to soften. I started to understand that
God hadn’t forsaken me like I had initially thought. If God didn’t
care about me, He wouldn’t have bothered to place these people in my
life. If God didn’t care about me, He wouldn’t have bothered to place
these people in my life.

A year later, I reluctantly enrolled into a Chinese Media &
Communication Diploma course at a local polytechnic. Although my
command of the Chinese language wasn’t too bad, I hated it and really
dreaded entering into the course. I really wanted to go to a JC badly
since I felt it would increase my chances of qualifying for local
universities.

Again, it wasn’t a smooth-sailing for me in polytechnic as I struggled
with the language. And because I wasn’t very interested in the
language, I didn’t make a lot effort to improve. I also struggled with
working with my group members for projects.

Nonetheless, God didn’t give up on me. During one of my deepest and
darkest moments, God revealed Exodus 14:14 to me, which said: “The
Lord will fight for you, you need only to be still.” I learned that I
did not have to be anxious or discouraged when the situation seemed
hopeless because God had my interests at heart.

And God started to open doors and opportunities in my life. The first
was helping me figure out what my passion was, through a particularly
inspiring journalism lecturer. As she shared her stories, I realized I
wanted to be like her. I dreamed of being a war correspondent, to
cover the lives of those affected and give them a voice on the global
platform.

The second was giving me a six-month internship at a local English
newspaper publication, which I ended up staying for a year. Coming
from a Chinese language course, I initially thought my chances were
slim so I was literally jumping for joy when I found out I was
selected.

God also gave me great friends during my time in polytechnic,
especially those from Campus Crusade for Christ. They blessed me
immensely, showing me love in many ways—by helping me out with my
studies, or lending a listening ear or even just fellowship.

Through my own life experience, I’ve come to understand the saying:
“When God closes one door, he opens another.” Despite closing all the
doors that I wanted, He led me to walk another path and live another
life—a life I never thought I would. Although it seemed as though He
had taken away everything I thought I deserved, He actually had given
me so much more.

