http://ymi.today/2017/05/5-humbling-lessons-ive-learned-as-a-new-mom/

5 Humbling Lessons I’ve Learned As a New Mom

Author: by Tracy Phua

As I’m writing this article, my 3½-month-old baby is stretching in her
rocker and “talking” to herself. It amazes me how much she has grown
in these past months—from a wrinkly, frowning newborn to a chubby,
still frowning baby.

Clichéd as this may sound, I’ve grown too.

These past few months of motherhood have not been easy, to say the
least. I thought I was all prepared for it, but as it turned out,
nothing could prepare me for what child-rearing would bring. I was
constantly overwhelmed and found myself muttering prayers under my
breath whenever things got too crazy.

Although I am feeling less overwhelmed now, the prayers have not
lessened. Looking back, there were five experiences which stood out
for me as a new mom.



Before the delivery, I saw countless posts on social media by blogger
moms oozing with maternal pride and love. When it came to my turn, I
was eagerly waiting to feel the same way too. But the moment my baby
was born, I found myself busy wondering why she seemed to have a
bruise on her forehead and figuring out whom she resembled more (and
of course, after being in my body 10 months, she had to look like my
husband). Even in the weeks after her birth, I kept waiting to feel
the heart-bursting love for my baby . . . but I didn’t.

Motherhood brings a jumble of emotions. I’ve felt frustrated and even
resentful many times in the past few months. Please don’t
misunderstand me: Though I didn’t feel ecstatic about my baby’s
arrival, there were definitely moments of joy too. However, it was
difficult to pinpoint the exact emotion I felt at any given time, so
that made it hard to identify with the feelings shared by the blogger
moms.



I know babies cry, but my baby cries a lot—especially at night. In the
early days, she would scream for at least five hours before falling
asleep. I pored over books which diagnosed her as having colic, or
just needing to expend energy before she sleeps. I tried all the
methods recommended to put her to sleep, but all to no avail. This
left me feeling physically and mentally exhausted, frustrated, and
even resentful at times.

I have lost count of the number of times I have broken down and asked
God why my baby behaves this way. However, He reminded (and continues
to remind) me that my baby is completely dependent on me for what she
needs—milk and comfort—so I should not deprive her of it just because
of my own selfish desires.



The first time I went out by myself after the birth of my baby was
sheer bliss. It was a short trip to the city to pick up some things
for her, but it was all that I needed to be refreshed. However, I must
admit that I was plagued by “mom guilt” during my “me-time”. I felt
guilty for leaving my baby behind to get back some of my sanity. I
felt guilty for feeling that I was entitled to that time alone.

On hindsight, I realized that the “me-time” helped me to be a better
mom to my baby. I just needed to get away from the routine and
confines of my home for a while, but the benefits that it brought
lasted for a long time.



I read about post-natal depression when I was still pregnant, and to
be honest, I thought that it would never happen to me—until I realized
that I was experiencing more than the usual “baby blues” after my baby
was born.

I am not sure if it was because my baby was fussier than the average
baby, but I realized that I had started to become fearful of night
time. It got to a point where I would start to have irrational fears
during the night, and become so anxious that I would not be able to
fall asleep.

By God’s grace, the frequency of these feelings has since lessened.
But it still happens from time to time. I am constantly reminded to
commit my worries to the Lord, for He is my “refuge and strength, a
very present help in trouble” (Psalm 46:1).



I am thankful for the help and support that my husband and family gave
me in the first few months after my baby’s arrival. Before the
delivery, I naively thought that I could handle the baby on my own.
But everything was foreign to me, and I found the learning curve
extremely steep. It wasn’t long before I was welcoming any help that I
could get.

Now that I’m back at work, my baby is being cared for primarily by my
mom, with my aunts helping out from time to time. When my mom heard
that I was expecting, she had made plans to quit her job just so that
she would be available to care for my baby when I headed back to work.
Words cannot express how grateful I am for the way my mother
selflessly put her entire life on hold just to help me out.

As I reflect on these past months, I am encouraged by the hearts of my
mother and my aunts who willingly sacrificed their time and comfort
for us. Their actions remind me of the woman described in Proverbs
31:25-30: “She is clothed with strength and dignity; she can laugh at
the days to come. She speaks with wisdom, and faithful instruction is
on her tongue. She watches over the affairs of her household and does
not eat the bread of idleness. Her children arise and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praises her: ‘Many women do noble
things, but you surpass them all.’ Charm is deceptive, and beauty is
fleeting; but a woman who fears the LORD is to be praised.”



This Mother’s Day, I am thankful for my mom and my aunts who play a
“mothering” role in my life. They have shown me what it means to be
joyful in the midst of suffering and to be obedient stewards of their
households.

On this day, it is my prayer that God will use and mold me in my new
role as a mother, as I strive to live my life as a reflection of what
the Bible describes in Proverbs 31.



Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



