http://ymi.today/2017/09/3-ways-to-deal-with-bullying/

3 Ways to Deal With Bullying

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ellen Bargh, UK

I didn’t realise I was different until kids at primary school kept
pointing it out. You see, I have ginger hair. No one else had ginger
hair in my school apart from my brother, but they always picked on me,
never on him.

Most of the time, it was one or two kids who picked on me. But
sometimes they would do it in front of my friends, and my friends
would join in too. They called me ginger minger and carrot top. I was
left out of their games in the playground and I hated going to school.

I wanted to be like everyone else, I didn’t want people to call me
horrible names. I thought if I was the same as them, they would stop.
So I begged and begged my mum to let me change my hair colour; I
didn’t tell her the real reason. But she wouldn’t let me dye it
blonde. She said it was unique and beautiful. But I hated it.

I badly wanted to fit in but I also wanted revenge. So I tried to get
my brother to pick on them. He was older and could make their lives
miserable if he wanted to, but he didn’t. Maybe he thought that they
would pick on him too if he did.

By the time I was in high school, I had managed to convince my mum to
let me dye my hair a little bit. I was allowed blonde highlights—at
least that disguised it a little bit. Though people still made fun of
me, I was determined to convince myself that I was blonde with ginger
highlights so that it would hurt less.

I didn’t think it would happen when I was older. I didn’t think adults
would be as cruel, but just a few of years ago, I faced a similar
situation at work. It wasn’t because of my hair; it was just because
the person didn’t like me. She didn’t call me names to my face.
Instead, she told everyone around me that she didn’t like me and
didn’t want to work with me. What really hurt was that we used to be
friends, but now she wouldn’t acknowledge me when I walked into a
room. In meetings, others’ opinions and suggestions were valued but
mine were ignored. It was as though they had not even been said.

The same feelings I had when I was in school arose and I felt isolated
and alone. I felt stupid for feeling left out. I wasn’t a kid in the
playground anymore; I was an adult. How could I let someone treat me
that way? I didn’t know what to do, so I didn’t respond or retaliate.
I didn’t want to go and talk to her about it because I felt so small
and I was worried that she would say that I was making it up.

I thought it was my fault, that I must have offended her in some way.
But she never said what I had done wrong. I went to talk to another
friend about the situation and we began to pray about it. At first, I
couldn’t even pray about the person I was so angry with, but God
softened my heart.

Here are three things I’ve learned about how to deal with bullying:



Though we are each made unique, everyone is made in the image of God
and Jesus loves us equally. We need to see ourselves and others the
same way God does. God created us all. He doesn’t want any of us to
feel isolated and alone.

When I was able to see my colleague as someone whom Jesus died for and
loved, and not just as a bully, I was then able to pray for her.
Because we had previously been friends, it was also easier for me to
remind myself of her good qualities.



When Jesus told His disciples to love their enemies and pray for those
who persecuted them, I don’t think it was just so they would stop
persecuting them, but that His disciples would be able to see their
enemies in a different light (Matthew 5:44).

When we start praying for good things to happen to the other person,
it helps change our perspective of the situation and the person. It
helps us to love them. Sometimes, the way they behave may be because
they have terrible things going on in the background that we don’t
know about.

The more my friend and I prayed, the easier it became to ignore my
colleague’s behaviour and not let it affect me. Though I did not
confront her about the issue, I did go out of my way to try to
acknowledge her.



Facing a problem with someone beside you is better than facing it on
your own. By sharing with someone more mature, you can keep your
thoughts in check and not allow them to overwhelm you. It also means
someone can pray for you and with you about it (Galatians 6:2). As my
friend and I talked and prayed about the situation, she helped me to
see that I hadn’t done anything wrong and that I should not be afraid
to continue to be myself.

There are times when bullying can become so bad that action needs to
be taken by your school or workplace to protect you or others. But no
matter how bad the situation is, we can always take it to God and know
that He is in control.



I no longer work at that place today. But whenever the situation comes
to mind or if I happen to bump into her, I pray and ask God to bless
her. But ultimately, I’m learning to remind myself that the opinion of
others doesn’t matter. I want to fix my eyes on Jesus and His love and
care for me.

