http://ymi.today/2017/05/why-am-i-disappointed-in-ministry/

Why Am I Disappointed in Ministry?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jasmine Koh, Singapore

I’ve always believed that hard work pays off. Sacrifices must be
made—be it time, entertainment, or sleep—if results are to be
expected. It is therefore no surprise to hear how many would stay up
late to complete their assignments, edit their masterpieces, or study
for an exam.

I apply this attitude to both my studies and my involvement in
Christian ministry. Besides serving in church, over the past four
years, I’ve been volunteering at a para-church organization for youth
where I share the good news of Christ to unbelieving youths on the
streets and disciple small groups of believers.

Occasionally, the time I invest into preparing Bible study materials
and facilitating comes at the expense of sleep and social life. Don’t
get me wrong, I am not complaining about these sacrifices—after all,
this work ethic has long been ingrained in me.

But, despite my efforts, my group members seemed to display stagnancy
in their spiritual growth. On better occasions, there would be four to
five of us. But academia and school commitments proved to be real
competing elements, and whenever competitions and examinations drew
near, there would be a drop in attendance. Week after week, Bible
study sessions and prayer meetings would see a regular attendance of
two attendees—myself and one other student.

It was extremely defeating.

I remembered seeking God intently for His direction and for
affirmation, wondering if my work was acceptable and pleasing to the
Lord. Was there something I had to do more of? Or did I have to let go
of something?

But then I thought: It can’t be that ministering to others through
Bible studies is not effective enough. After all, bible study is one
of the most fundamental habits of Christian growth. So why did I feel
that I was not doing enough?

Over time and after seeking godly counsel, I arrived at this
conclusion: Either what I was doing was clearly against biblical
principles, or my heart was simply not right with God.

I believed it was the second case. Clearly, my heart was not aligned
with God’s. What I saw as the end goal in ministry was not what He
saw. What I saw as the end goal in ministry was not what He saw. I had
been unwittingly distracted by the things of God, instead of focusing
on God himself. In other words, my focus on the attendance, the
quality of discussion, and the materials had consumed my focus on the
One I was doing all this for.

Psalm 37:4 (NASB) says, “Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will
give you the desires of your heart.” When our hearts are aligned with
God’s heart, we will naturally desire what He wants and experience
joy. Yet, despite knowing this, I had allowed myself to be caught in a
tiring, fruitless cycle of focusing on the peripheral things. I had
held on too tightly to these aspects of ministry that while necessary,
were not critical. My disappointments in ministry came because I
sought joy in getting results.

Disappointment is a natural response to our unmet hopes and
expectations. But it’s how we respond to our disappointments that
reveal our intentions. Too often, I become despondent when things
don’t go according to how I envision and I lose steam to
continue—instead of  surrendering the work to the Lord.

Through Paul’s letter to Timothy in 2 Tim 3-4, I’m reminded that what
God requires of us is to persevere and to hope in Him—regardless of
the outcome. Despite Paul’s tribulations and persecutions, he fixed
his eyes on Jesus and remained faithful to the task of advancing God’s
kingdom work.

If there is one thing I need to tell myself when faced with
disappointments again, it is to learn to let go and seek God. My
prayer is to continually see the big picture that God has in His
ultimate plan of redemption and salvation so that in any role I
partake, whether big or small, I place my joy and assurance in the
Lord that He will bring it to completion.

But while I pray that the Lord gives me the joy of knowing Him well, I
must also not neglect taking concrete steps in improving how I teach
and share from the Bible. For instance, I should communicate regularly
with my students to get feedback on their challenges and ways to
improve the sessions.

Psalm 127: 1 (NASB) sums it up well: “Unless the Lord builds the
house, they labor in vain who build it.” A ministry can only grow if
it is God-led and God-centered.

May the joy of knowing God spur us to excel in His work, and not the
other way around.



