http://ymi.today/2015/07/the-day-i-googled-the-weight-of-a-cloud/

The Day I Googled the Weight of a Cloud

Author: by Contributor

Written by Renny Acheampong, Denmark

Have you ever wondered how much a cloud weighs?

It’s a strange question, I know, but it’s something that came to mind
one Sunday as I was taking in one of my favorite sights from the
window by my bedside—a blue sky dotted with puffy, snow-white clouds.
As I admired the sunlit clouds and the beautiful tranquil, peaceful
scene, I heard God asking me, “Do you know how much a cloud weighs?”

“Lord, I don’t know the answer,” I replied. “You know.”

I took out my phone and searched for the weight of a cloud. The answer
was staggering. According to a researcher at America’s National Center
for Atmospheric Research, the weight of a typical cloud is about 500
tons—or about 100 elephants! It meant that whenever I saw what
appeared to be a “small” cloud in the sky, I was looking at the
equivalent of 100 elephants hanging in the sky.

“Wow,” I thought to myself. The discovery immediately brought to my
mind Colossians 1:16-17, which says, “For in him all things were
created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether
thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things have been
created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him
all things hold together.”

What an amazing phenomenon: millions of “elephants” are soaring in the
sky, supported by God Himself! As I reflected on this, I heard a small
whisper in my heart, “If I can balance that many ‘elephants’ in the
sky, don’t you think I can balance your life?”

I don’t know what you may be going through in life, or how much pain
you may be feeling. But may this comfort you: the Lord Jesus knows
your needs, and He wants you to trust Him to balance all the
“elephants” in your life.

If you haven’t done so, may I urge you to place your trust in Jesus?
If you are already a Christian, look back on your life and think about
the many times the Lord came through for you. Give thanks and be
encouraged.

