http://ymi.today/2016/01/are-you-satisfied-with-your-life/

Are You Satisfied With Your Life?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jesse Schmidt, Canada

My growing up years were tough.

When my parents got divorced, my brothers and I stayed with my dad,
and we had to share a bedroom in a friend’s house for some time. Being
small-sized and a bit of a geek, I was frequently picked on physically
and verbally.

As a result, I became very angry and bitter towards people who had
everything going right for them. To cope with these feelings and
depressing thoughts, I made a resolution to fill my life with fun.
This came in the form of video games, sports, exercise, movies—you
name it, I tried it. But I was never truly satisfied; these things
were fun, but they couldn’t give me the peace or joy that I truly
wanted. What I was searching for was a life that was full of hope and
joy—just like what I had heard about in church.

About two years ago, the Lord began to work in my life and show me
that the things I was doing would never satisfy and was not what I
needed. Slowly, through constant prompting by the word and through
other Christians, He helped me let go of things and activities that
used to fill my life.

Today, I can say with full confidence that I’ve found that life in
Christ. One key verse that I reflect on often is Matthew 16:25, in
which Jesus says: “For whoever wants to save their life will lose it,
but whoever loses their life for me will find it.”

Now I know what you are thinking: What did Jesus mean about losing
your life to find it? Indeed, it sounds odd, and not something that
anyone would want to do. It did not make sense to me either—until I
learned to surrender my life to Jesus and started a relationship with
him.

For me, it included things like spending less time on things I
desired, like playing video games or sports and doing things that He
desired like reading the bible and helping others. It was not easy. It
took effort and the shedding of tears. But it was worth it, and still
is worth it as tough times occur now.

Having been through difficult times and facing people who looked down
on me, I’ve found that I can always go to Jesus, the Solid Rock who
does not change or reject those who seek Him. Because of His
sacrifice, I can have a relationship with Him that is without a doubt
the best thing that ever happened to me. With a life in Jesus, I can
now handle anything the world throws at me, because I know that He
will work out all things for His glory and my good. With a life in
Jesus, I can now handle anything the world throws at me, because I
know that He will work out all things for His glory and my good.

Jesus is the only one who can fully satisfy and give life; nothing
else in this world can. I know this because I have tried to find
satisfaction in the things of this world, like playing video games or
sports. It was only after I started spending time in solitude with the
Lord, reading my Bible and learning about His promises and character,
that I realized how much more meaningful and satisfying they were than
playing video games by myself.

What are you going through? Can I encourage you to take hold of the
life Jesus promised us?

