http://ymi.today/2015/11/why-i-cried-over-a-dream/

Why I Cried Over A Dream

Author: by Joanna Hor

It was still fresh in my mind when I woke up that morning. It wasn’t a
bad or sad dream. In fact, it was one of the sweetest dreams I’ve had
in a while.

I was sharing a chocolate ice-cream cone (that wasn’t why it was a
sweet dream) with my father. And for some reason, I remember that it
cost $50. That’s all I recalled when I woke up. But that was enough to
trigger the tears.

As I brushed my teeth, it hit me why I was crying. The moment I opened
my eyes, I knew that the joy I felt in my dream of sharing an ice
cream with my father was not going to come to pass in reality.

It has been two and a half years since my father passed away. I
thought I had finally got used to his absence but that morning proved
otherwise. And although it was not the first time I dreamed of him,
seeing his face and smile in the dream made me realize how much I miss
him—and that I am still grieving.

I remember how surreal everything felt in the weeks after my father
left us. I thought I had lost my capability to feel anymore. Nothing
interested me, made me happy, or frustrated me. Aside from an
underlying feeling of gut-wrenching loss, I was emotionally numb. Life
felt meaningless without my father and the future ahead felt like a
big, black hole. There were even times I wished Jesus would quickly
return or that my mother, brother, and I could suddenly die together
so we could all be reunited in heaven and not have to go through life
without my father.

But God used time and routine to sustain us. Gradually, I began
experiencing everyday emotions again: happiness, anger, frustration,
jealousy, fear, etc. I felt happy after a good run. I got angry when I
had to do extra work because of another person’s shoddy job. I was
frustrated when I took the wrong bus and had to waste time. And so on.

Life resumed normalcy and I felt like I had completely accepted the
fact that my father was no longer around. It became less difficult
talking about happy memories we shared and looking at photographs of
him didn’t automatically trigger the shedding of tears. Even
commemorating his death anniversary and his birthday (just a couple of
weeks ago) seemed to get easier.

But like that morning’s episode showed, the grief I thought had long
disappeared had never left. All this while, it had just been dormant,
and when I least expected it, it erupted.

On the one hand, I’m baffled by how intense the feeling of loss still
is to me. A pendant, which a friend had given to me at my father’s
funeral, had these words engraved on it: “This too shall pass.” I
originally thought “this” was supposed to mean grief; now I’m not so
sure.

But on the other hand, I’m somewhat relieved it’s still lingering
around. Because when it comes, it puts all my priorities, worries, and
concerns in perspective. But on the other hand, I’m somewhat relieved
it’s still lingering around. Because when it comes, it puts all my
priorities, worries, and concerns in perspective. The little
irritation I felt earlier over something a friend said, or the envy
towards someone who achieved something I hadn’t, all become really
insignificant and silly non-issues. Grief serves as a very real and
tangible reminder that at the end of the day, there is nothing more
important in our earthly lives than the relationships we have—with God
and with others.

In my moments of intense grief, I am reminded that loss is a rite of
passage that everyone has to go through at some point. Everyone will
face pain and loss of varying degrees. At the same time, loss is also
a stark reminder that there is something terribly wrong with our
lives. Death and loss are not meant to be “normal” occurrences; they
are the effects of sin in a world that has deviated from how God
originally intended.

Also, it’s a sombre reminder that life is short and what I do now
counts for eternity. It nudges me to keep focusing on the things that
are important but not urgent, instead of the things that are urgent
but not important. I’m also motivated to live out my faith and share
about Jesus to my loved ones before my own time on earth is up.

These days, I’m learning to accept grief as part and parcel of my
life. When it strikes (and I’m sure it will again), I want to be fully
cognizant of the fact that this pain is temporary because of what
Jesus has done. I will see my father again in glory and till then, I
want to live my life well.



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



