http://ymi.today/2017/05/i-wanted-to-sing-but-gods-track-was-
different/

I Wanted to Sing, But God’s Track was Different

Author: by Contributor

Written by Michelle Lai, Singapore

I had always loved singing and wanted to join the singing club in
school. However, God had a different track in mind for me.

When I entered university in 2013, my Christian friends encouraged me
to join the Christian Fellowship (CF). They even linked me up with a
cell group leader whom I knew. But there was a problem—I had no
intention of joining CF. I secretly thought that joining a Christian
community in university was uncool.  In my mind, I imagined a group of
people reading the Bible together every week. As someone who wanted to
be seen as cool and trendy, I definitely did not want to be part of
that.

Instead, I wanted to join the school’s singing club. I envisioned
myself on stage singing one day. You see, I have always loved the
“emotional” experience that singing brings whenever I sing with
friends and allow the music and lyrics to “speak” to me. I wanted to
spread that infectious feeling on stage. I was so convinced that I
wanted to join the singing club and not CF that I decided to message
the cell group leader to inform her of my decision.

I might have forgotten to mention one thing, though: I could not sing
to save my life. I had no background in music. My singing voice was of
a higher register, while most songs suited those who had a lower
register.

I remember feeling very disappointed when I did not pass the audition
for the singing club. The senior, who was conducting the audition, had
asked me if I could play a musical instrument. I felt useless because
I couldn’t—plus the fact I did not understand the musical terms used.

Still, I wanted to experience what it was like to be “cool” in
university, so I decided to join my friends to drink and party. But
one night was all it took to change my mind.  As I watched my friends
lose control of themselves after drinking, I decided that was not how
I wanted to live. Besides, those were expensive and unhealthy habits.

While I remained friends with those who had hobbies vastly different
from mine, I wondered what else there was to life aside from just
partying and studying. I began to question my identity and took a hard
look at what I was doing in my life at the time. That was when I
realized my need for a community with similar values to anchor me and
help me navigate the confusing path of adulthood. It was then that I
decided to join CF.

Once again, I wanted sing in the worship team. In fact, I was given
the opportunity, but that didn’t last either. A couple of my seniors
gave me feedback that I had failed to help people to worship God
because I kept singing out of tune. After that session, I knew that
God had not called me to lead worship.

After that, I was given many opportunities by my seniors to serve in
different areas. I was determined to heed the advice of the words I
had seen on an Instagram post: “Bloom where you are planted.”

As I started to examine my strengths and weaknesses objectively, I
became an active CF member and eventually stepped up to be a cell
group leader. I also became a part of the encouragement ministry in CF
where we pray for the group, write notes of encouragement, pack
welfare packs, and organize bonding activities.

Studying the Bible—which I initially thought was uncool—helped me
develop my love for God’s Word. Over time, God showed me that I did
not have to be fixated on the one talent that I did not have
(singing). If we respond in faithful obedience, He will show us our
gifts that can be used to honor Him. Over time, God showed me that I
did not have to be fixated on the one talent that I did not have
(singing). If we respond in faithful obedience, He will show us our
gifts that can be used to honor Him.

Slowly, it dawned on me that writing poems was a way to express myself
and offer praise and honor to Him. As I posted my poems on social
media, I received some positive feedback from my friends. My best
friend—a non-believer—told that it was encouraging for her to read
about my faith and my God, and how my belief helped me in times of
struggles. It amazed me that God could use my poems to reach my non-
believing friends!

I started my university life wanting it to be the most thrilling and
cool years of my life, and in the end, God fulfilled it—but not in the
way I had envisioned. By His grace, I had numerous opportunities to
identify my weaknesses and develop my strengths. These experiences
shaped me and I hope they will continue to guide me in the future,
especially for my future job. That said, I know that I do not have to
worry, because God can use anybody who is willing to be molded by Him.

Here’s a poem God convicted me to write that describes this journey I
went through.

Shape of Me

The Potter molded me What is my destiny I was formed from dust Tell me
Would I last I wanted to be a vase To keep flowers in place But the
Potter had other plans He told me to trust in His hands He molded me
into a jug To be honest I was not smug I questioned the Potter’s hands
I wondered what were His plans What else is He molding Other than my
shape Something deep within me He is changing me instead He said the
purpose of all these Is to draw me to Himself He delights in me And
now I accept myself

