http://ymi.today/2015/06/a-letter-to-my-future-husband/

A Letter to My Future Husband

Author: by Contributor

Written By VT, Singapore

Dear (Future) Husband, You’re reading this on the first morning of our
first day as a married couple because you are (now officially) the guy
that I have been praying so much for. You came about in God’s good
timing and, once again, He has given me more than I could ever wish
for.

Before meeting you, I had read Christian dating books on finding my
“Mr. Right” (no prizes for guessing which books) and was told by my
parents and friends to carefully and prayerfully consider what sort of
qualities and characteristics I wanted in a man. “Take a pen, note it
down, and bring it to God in prayer.” That’s exactly what I did (don’t
get all shocked now).

From the moment we started off as friends, I began to see how well we
fitted together. We served together and tried as much as possible to
keep Christ at the center of everything we did. You led by example in
every way, and that was when I knew you would be a godly leader of our
home (with kids, hopefully).

In the years, months, days and hours leading up to our marriage, God
knew I needed someone like you. From our first date (extra brownie
points if it was a home-cooked dinner), to getting to know my family
and friends (the sure way to win their hearts), to the day you decided
to propose (I could never have guessed your plans), you showed me what
it is to love—by loving God first. The qualities you possessed ticked
off all the essential boxes on my “future husband” list. (Everything
else you are is an added bonus.)

Although we both started off with glorious expectations and high
hopes, we knew that we might fail to measure up along the way. I’m
thankful that we both saw the importance of understanding how to
become godly individuals first in order to become a godly couple.

Through the growing process, I became more aware of my own flaws and
shortcomings. You should know all too well by now how much of a
worrywart I am; I apologize for harrying you unnecessarily with my
problems when my first step should have been to turn to God. You
should also realize by now how difficult it is for me to show
financial generosity (it’s easier when it comes to time and love), how
terribly indecisive I am (90 percent of the time during shopping), and
how I defer responsibility to others. I’m sure there are more flaws
that I may not even be aware of, but I promise to work at them if you
let me know (gently please). Thank you for loving me despite
everything.

Yesterday, as I walked down the aisle (glad I didn’t trip) and saw you
up front in the distance, I knew that there are many things we have
yet to learn about each other (till we’re both 70 or more). Although
we are not going to get everything right all the time, with the right
combination of love, communication and prayer, I fully believe that we
can help each other become what God wants us to be.

Are you just as excited as I am about the life ahead of us? (I thought
so.)

I can’t be any happier than I already am. God has led me to you.



Your (Future) Wife June 2015



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Relationships“

EDITOR’S NOTE: What qualities do you want in your future spouse? What
do you think about the advice “Take a pen, note it down, and bring it
to God in prayer”? Share your thoughts in the comment section!

