http://ymi.today/2016/01/job-hunting-are-you-relying-on-yourself-or-
god/

Job Hunting: Are You Relying on Yourself or God?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lisa Loh, Singapore

“You are the future generation and you can change the world.”

So we are told repeatedly in university, and it is with this mindset
that we enter the working world as bright-eyed fresh graduates, full
of hope and expectation. But the reality is quite different.

Over the few months after graduation, I applied for various job, but
kept getting rejected by one company after another. Soon, my friends
and I were exchanging stories about our failed attempts to enter the
job market.

Imagine the exhilaration I felt when I finally got called for an
interview! Having been taught that showing confidence would increase
my chances of getting the job, I went all out to position myself as Ms
I-Can-Change-The-World (or, in this case, Ms I-Know-It-All-And-Am-
Therefore-The-Best-Fit). I oversold myself by pitching my internship
experience as a perfect match, even though what I had done didn’t
really have anything to do with the position I was interviewing for.

By God’s grace, I got the job. The next two years, however, turned out
to be a roller-coaster ride. The expectations and working styles of my
bosses and colleagues were completely different from what I had
envisioned, resulting in much disappointment on both sides. The job
itself was a mismatch: I could not excel in the tasks I was given, and
I found the work unfulfilling. This hit my confidence badly, and I
started to believe that I really wasn’t good in anything.

About half a year into the job, I was tasked to work on a project with
a colleague. Due to differences in our working styles and
personalities, I encountered much difficulty and felt like I was
running into a wall on a daily basis. However, God in His wisdom knew
when I had reached my threshold, and provided a new boss to oversee
the project, which made it much better for me. It was a testament of
God’s constant faithfulness, goodness, and deliverance.

Looking back, I realize that those two years had been a time of
molding. It was a period where I learned to place my confidence solely
on God’s providence and grace, instead of my own ability. It was also
during that period that I learned what one’s identity in Christ means,
which is a beloved child of God made in His image. I learned to
recognize that my strength came from God alone, and not from me
(Isaiah 30:15). I learned to let go and trust God to cause all things
to work together for the good of those who love Him (Romans 8:28-29).

So, whether or not I get the results I aim for in work, or the
promotion I strive for, my confidence should not be shaken, because it
is placed in God.

If you ask me now what I would have done differently in that first
interview had I relied more on God, I know that I would not have given
the interviewers the false perception that I had all the answers.
Instead, I would have admitted humbly when I didn’t. And I would have
trusted God to decide if I would get the job or not.

Recently, I applied for a new job and felt prompted to follow up with
a personal email to the head of the team. Although the thought that
“nobody really does this” made me hesitate initially, I decided to
listen to the prompting. Instead of overselling myself like I did the
first time, I explained honestly why I was seeking a job change, and
shared realistically about how I could contribute to the team.

Despite this being a completely different industry with an unfamiliar
job scope, I felt a sense of calmness throughout the process. Despite
this being a completely different industry with an unfamiliar job
scope, I felt a sense of calmness throughout the process. My
confidence came from the assurance that God would have it all planned
out. I knew that I just needed to try my best, and God would work all
things out for my good—even if it meant closing the door.

A week later, I was signing my employment contract. God had graciously
opened the doors and taken me into another season of life—I give Him
full glory and thanksgiving!

So far, this new job has been nothing short of fulfilling and
exciting. Of course, I still face difficulties and still make
mistakes, but people around me have been forgiving and patient with
me. I believe it is the result of God’s constant grace and
faithfulness in my life.

Are you going through such a change in your life? I encourage you to
never forget who you are in Christ. You are God’s beloved child,
created in His own image (Genesis 1:27), regardless of the job you
hold, or the designation written on your business card.

Don’t let your job search make or break you. Instead, make it your
priority to present your true self as God’s child, and leave the rest
to Him.

