http://ymi.today/2016/08/when-i-found-the-missing-piece-to-success/

When I Found the Missing Piece To Success

Author: by Michele Ong

Sometime ago, I started mulling over the meaning of success.

This came about when my dad made an offhand comment on how successful
one of my distant cousins, a surgeon, was in life. My cousin (whom
I’ve never met) was also married with twins. All in, it looked like
she was success personified. I remember telling my dad—rather
grumpily—that arts graduates can be just as successful in life as
their medicine-studying counterparts. I mean, look at New Zealand film
director Taika Waititi. He’s successful! English actor Tom Hiddleston
was singing Waititi’s praises, admiring him for his directing prowess
and also said he loved Waititi’s movie, Hunt For The Wilderpeople.

But the comment got me thinking about the definition of success.

Does it mean having a large bank account, owning expensive clothes and
shoes, and living in a luxurious apartment? Does it mean giving up
your comfortable job and steady income to volunteer in a third-world
country? Or does it mean having a family, settling down in a nice
home, and enjoying a good social life with family and friends?

I Googled “what is success?”, and got 1,040,000 search results. The
first thing that caught my eye was a playlist of talks featuring
prominent individuals sharing their ideas and definitions of success.
Two of them stood out in particular.

One was by American author Elizabeth Gilbert, who wrote the massively
popular 2006 memoir Eat Pray Love. To her, success meant persevering
in the face of setbacks. Gilbert received numerous rejection letters
over six years before she published her first book. But as devastating
as those rejections were, she never saw quitting as an option.

The other was by late American basketball player and coach John
Wooden, who defined success as “a peace of mind attained only through
self-satisfaction in knowing you did your best to become the best you
are capable of becoming”.

After listening to both talks, I felt like I had a better
understanding of what made a successful life. It seemed to be about
overcoming adversities and being the best we could be. And these
principles were consistent with what the Bible teaches. The Bible
warns against laziness (Proverbs 6:10-11; Proverbs 10:4) and urges us
to give our best in everything we do, recognizing that we work for God
and not for men (Colossians 3:23-24).

But I couldn’t help but feel that something was still missing in this
“success formula”.

So I looked up my all-time favourite book, The Purpose Driven Life, by
American pastor Rick Warren. He wrote that humans weren’t created just
to consume resources or to “get” the most out of life, but that God
had created us to make a difference in our lives by giving and
serving. God had created us to make a difference in our lives by
giving and serving. Mother Teresa, for example, didn’t own a large
mansion, yet her works have impacted millions of people around her.

And, of course, there’s Jesus Himself. He was born into a humble life,
without pomp or pageantry. He devoted His life to serving and
ministering to others, doing many miracles among them to show His
Father’s power and love. Later on, Jesus demonstrated the biggest act
of service and sacrifice by laying down His life for us. Up till
today, His name is remembered and His one selfless act continues to
change lives around the world. How’s that for a successful life?

So if Jesus’ life is the epitome of success, we can be confident that
God doesn’t measure our success by our material wealth. Neither does
He measure our success by the good deeds we do or the achievements we
have.

Having said that, it’s not wrong if we’re blessed with a good income,
have great achievements, or if we want to volunteer in society. I know
a couple of businessmen and entrepreneurs who draw in large salaries
and contribute a portion of their earnings to the church as their
means of service. And then there are those who are called to be
missionaries and leave the comforts of their home to serve in
unfamiliar environments. In God’s eyes, both groups are just as
valuable and just as successful because their motivation is the
same—to serve and give to God.

I know it can be easy to define success by our salaries, job titles,
and achievements in life. I fall into this trap every now and then,
and compare my job to my friends’ high-flying careers. I sometimes
even feel embarrassed for having not embarked on any big missions in
my life, and feel like I have fallen short of the mark of “success”.

But I have to constantly remind myself that God doesn’t care for these
things. There’ll be a day when we have to stand before God to give an
account of how we have lived. Will we be able to stand confidently
before Him knowing we have served Him wholeheartedly and given Him our
best? If so, I truly believe that that’s the mark of a successful
life!



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



