http://ymi.today/2016/08/the-most-ideal-job-stay-at-home-mom/

The Most Ideal Job: Stay-At-Home Mom?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Christine E., USA

I remember a chat I had with a friend back in high school about what
we wanted to be when we grew up. I don’t recall what I had said at the
time, but it was probably a human rights lawyer or missionary.

Later on in our youth group discussion, our group leaders told us to
write down what we thought was the ideal job. “How could there ever be
a perfect job?” I thought. So I wrote down “stay-at-home mom”. The
same friend I had been talking to earlier looked at me in surprise.
“Stay-at-home mom? But you had such great ambitions earlier! Why do
you want to be a stay-at-home mom now?”

In a way, her reaction wasn’t surprising. After all, most people
wouldn’t consider a stay-at-home mom to be an “ambitious” or
“successful” career choice.

Several years on, while I was pregnant with my son, my mother gave me
a book about a woman called Sarah Edwards who raised 11 children.
Intrigued, I decided to learn more about this woman.

Sarah was the wife of an American minister, Jonathan Edwards, in the
18th century.

Pastor Edwards was a busy man, so Sarah bore the brunt of raising the
11 children. She ran the household capably, disciplining her children
in a just yet kind manner to instill obedience in them—not just
towards her husband and herself, but ultimately to God.

Prayer was a key component of her life. Before each child was born,
Sarah would pray diligently for them. She would also pray regularly
with them from a young age as well as on her own as she went about her
day, knowing the immense responsibility of raising an immortal soul.

When Pastor Edwards was suddenly dismissed from his church, Sarah was
forced to find work for some time in order to support the family.
Later on, Pastor Edwards brought his family to serve as missionaries
in a Native American village. It was there that Pastor Edwards and
Sarah passed away suddenly after eight years of mission work, leaving
behind a family of orphans, the youngest of whom was only eight years
old.

To the world, Sarah died with few achievements. She didn’t live a long
life, didn’t work for a long time, and lived in a village. She wasn’t
successful or prosperous. She was only a stay-at-home mom.

And yet, among Sarah’s descendants were 13 university presidents, 65
professors, 100 lawyers (including the dean of a law school), 30
judges, 66 doctors (including the dean of a medical school), three
United States senators, three mayors, three governors of states, one
controller of the U.S. Treasury, one vice-president, and over a
hundred pastors, missionaries, and other religious workers.

A good portion of this legacy can certainly be attributed to Sarah’s
faithfulness in raising her children in the way of the Lord. Why
shouldn’t we consider that a worthy achievement?

When we measure others’ successes, it is easy to look out for external
and tangible things: Do they have a big house or a nice car? What do
they do for a living? What is their monthly income? Sometimes, we also
look at their contributions to the society. In doing so, we
unwittingly—or not—make worldly accolades and material achievements
the benchmark of success.

But the Bible admonishes us not to store up treasures on earth. “But
store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moths and vermin do
not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where
your treasure is, there your heart will be also.”(Matthew 6:20-21). Of
course, it is not wrong to be wealthy or own many material
possessions; we are called to work hard to support ourselves and our
relatives (1 Timothy 5:8).

But in all that we do, God is asking us this: Where do our hearts lie?
Do we value material possessions or do we value Him more?

A comfortable life here on earth or recognition for our achievements
shouldn’t be all that we seek. We should ultimately seek the treasures
in heaven, that is, to live a life devoted to serving Jesus. God wants
our faithfulness. Like Sarah Edwards, if we are faithful in seeking
Him and faithful in the things that He has given to us to steward, God
can use us to achieve great things for His kingdom. if we are faithful
in seeking Him and faithful in the things that He has given to us to
steward, God can use us to achieve great things for His kingdom. And
in turn, we store treasure for ourselves in heaven.

In this season of life, God has allowed me to stay home with my infant
son. I am given countless opportunities daily to witness God’s
goodness to my child, and I have started praying for the same
diligence and faithfulness that Sarah Edwards exhibited in her life.
May my interactions with my son (as well as with my husband) point
unwaveringly to the grace of God.

Let us work not for other people’s recognition, but for God’s reward
(Philippians 3:14).

