http://ymi.today/2017/08/4-things-god-should-have-given-me/

4 Things God Should Have Given Me

Author: by Constance Goh

You bless us when we pray to You, don’t You?

In church, we’re taught to clasp our hands tightly, shut our eyes, bow
our heads and pray earnestly for whatever we want. I think I score
brownie points for attending Sunday service regularly and serving in
different ministries—you know, music, children, and youth ministry.

Your Word instructs us to “. . . present your requests to God”
(Philippians 4:6) and “. . . he will give you the desires of your
heart” (Psalm 37:4). Now that’s a promise written in the Bible. Oh, in
fact, You promised again in Matthew 6:33 that “ . . . and all these
things will be given to you as well.”

Since You so kindly offered and promised, here are four things I want.
I’m not sure why You had denied me of them for the past 20 years, but
it’s not too late to give them to me now. Like, right now.



You seem to have forgotten about this when You created me. While You
gave my friends the gift of perfect pitch and the enviable skills of
playing multiple instruments, I was stuck with the amazing ability of
not being able to differentiate between different notes.

Okay, fine. You did give me the ability to play one instrument. But,
seriously, the guitar isn’t that hard to pick up and so many other
people can play more than one instrument. Can’t I just have one more
musical talent?

Also, if You had made me talented in music, I could have been the next
Chris Martin of the gospel music industry. Just think of all the
melodious tunes I could have written and the many lives my music would
have impacted for you. Better yet, there would be thousands of people
at my concert praising Your name.

Doesn’t that just sound wonderful? It sure does to me.



This is important. Do you know how embarrassing it is when I need to
count the coins in my wallet at the end of each week to see if I can
afford the additional ice-cream cone from McDonalds?

Now, if You had made me rich, I would be able to buy whatever I wanted
without worrying about the price tag that comes with it. Too many
clothes? That wouldn’t be an issue; I could just get another wardrobe.
Not enough space? I could move into a huge house and not worry whether
my king-sized bed could fit through the door.

I could even give to missions and help You grow Your Kingdom. I could
sponsor pastors training in Bible school and plant new churches. I
know, God, I should start giving now. But look, I’m not earning that
much now, so You shouldn’t expect so much. I’ll definitely start
giving when I earn more.

So just give me the wealth first, okay?



Wow, God, just look at that girl—her large sparkling eyes, high
cheekbones, and beautiful smile.

Instead of making me look like that, you gave me slits for eyes and a
round face. No amount of make-up can enhance my features or change the
way I look—I’ve tried it. No matter how fashionably I dress, it
doesn’t change the fact that I’m not pretty. With a face like hers, I
could wear rags and still look effortlessly beautiful. And that’s
probably when guys will start to notice me.

Of course, it’s not about being complimented or being the envy of
others. I just want to be pretty so that I can help Your people feel
better about themselves when I dish out beauty tips on how to look
prettier.



You know that I’ve never been the one to ace all my subjects or top
the class. I’ve always been comparatively slower in understanding
concepts and learning new things. None of my teachers or friends has
ever called me “smart”.

Honestly, God, I think that’s Your fault. If You had blessed me with
wisdom like how You blessed Solomon, I wouldn’t have to struggle so
much during classes and spend so many late nights cramming for exams.
And I wouldn’t need to go for endless hours of tuition to catch up
with the syllabus. Don’t You know how much effort it takes for me to
walk to my tuition classes two blocks away?

And if I were smart, I would have been in a position to help my weaker
classmates with their schoolwork. I wouldn’t need to be that annoying
friend asking for help instead. You said it’s more blessed to give
than to receive (Acts 20:35); I want to obey You, okay?

I’ve said my piece and I hope You understand why I need all these
things. Seriously, God, I have a tough life now. I know You said
suffering produces perseverance, character; and character, hope
(Romans 5:3-4). But I’m not the “suffering” kind. I know myself better
than You do.

Look, if You gave me all these things, I’d praise You every day and
tell everyone of Your goodness. I mean, I could do it now as well, but
wouldn’t You look so much greater if I had more when I praised You?



Editor’s Note: In case you were wondering, yes, this was meant to be a
little exaggerated and tongue-in-cheek. Some of it is true, like the
musical talent bit. But no, the author doesn’t always have McDonalds
ice-cream cone every week. Still, there may be a couple of thoughts
here that probably have crossed your mind before. Share with us what
you struggle with and how God has been speaking to you. We want to
hear from you.



Constance is an avid reader and a Milo addict. If she is not found
with a book, she is probably watching Korean dramas or jamming on her
guitar to some Coldplay tunes. She enjoys the company of children and
hopes to work among them in the future. As someone who believes that
hardship on this earth is nothing compared to the future glory in
heaven, she takes pride in being able to work hard for God.



