http://ymi.today/2017/07/there-is-no-shame-in-getting-help/

There is No Shame in Getting Help

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

Due to injuries resulting from a major car accident which left me bed-
bound, I have ample personal experience knowing that asking for help
is not an easy thing to do.

I remember the time when my weekly Bible study was moved from its
usual location. When I arrived, my heart sank upon discovering that
the family had a “shoes off at the front door” policy. Unfortunately,
I had chosen to wear lace-up shoes that evening. It was during the
first year of my recovery process, and my left arm and leg were still
weak. Hence, putting on and removing those shoes involved a
painstaking, arduous process of lacing-and-tying single-handedly.

I definitely wasn’t comfortable letting people see that! As the Bible
study neared completion, my focus shifted to mulling over the
potentially embarrassing scene of a 20-something-year-old adult
struggling to tie her shoelaces—or I could get over myself and ask one
of the many new faces in the room to do it for me.

I ended up going with the latter and—as is often the case—it turned
out to be no big deal. The incident reinforced a simple principle: if
you want help, just tell others how they can assist you.

A few months later, I was out for dinner with some good friends and
ordered a pizza for myself. Inwardly, I was rather satisfied with my
choice of food: eating it would be a one-handed job, easily and
inconspicuously handled by my stronger right hand.

But when the soft, thin pizza was set in front of me, it was obvious
that slicing it was going to require some dual-hand maneuvering.

Sensing my conflicted mind, my very observant and kind friend took the
initiative and offered to cut my pizza for me. Though I was touched by
his thoughtful offer, I decided the situation was an important
opportunity for me to do the best I could, on my own. At the time, I
was just beginning to relearn basic activities of daily living, eager
to complete everyday tasks independently. I’m not sure whether the
pizza was much easier to cut than I had expected, or my left hand had
simply performed brilliantly—but it was a success.

These two examples are different. In the first, I found it appropriate
to ask for assistance, but in the second, I needed to give myself the
opportunity to be independent; I needed to try, to know whether I
could succeed.

Considering both situations, I believe that when it comes to asking
for help, there is simply no one-size-fits-all approach. But having
been a recipient of assistance so many times, here are some things
I’ve learned when it comes to asking for help—or receiving it.

Like my first example showed, sometimes it’s just not easy.

But if you think about it, the Gospels show that Jesus affirms, helps,
and praises the very people who cry out to God and show dependence on
Him. There is nothing embarrassing about asking for and receiving
help.

In fact, many of Jesus’ miracles stemmed from requests. In Luke 8, for
example, Jairus pleaded with Jesus to come and heal his dying
daughter. To cut a long story short, Jesus was delayed and Jairus’
daughter died, but ultimately, Jesus raised the girl from the dead.



Sometimes, it simply means putting aside your pride. Other times, it
means viewing such instances as providing a sanctifying opportunity to
those around you. Perhaps it took them a great deal of courage to ask
you if you needed help. Perhaps they’re learning to be more loving to
their neighbors.

At the same time, you are being given the chance to ask for help
humbly, and to show gratitude when you get it.



While the help offered or the way it is offered may not be perfect, do
appreciate the intentions of the people who attempt to do so. As for
those who do not give aid, give ample grace—I believe we have all
faced the insecurity and dilemma of when and how to offer help.

The truth is, we won’t get things right all the time. Sometimes we
might feel offended if someone offers help, sometimes it might be
because they didn’t. However, as Christians, it is not possible to be
wronged by others to the same degree that we have sinned against God.
Remembering how deeply God has loved us and how far He has removed our
transgressions makes all the difference to our response (Psalm
103:11-12).



The next time you have an opportunity to request for assistance, would
you take it, and be grateful for the help?

