http://ymi.today/2015/06/my-familys-5-most-annoying-habits/

My Family’s 5 Most Annoying Habits

Author: by Vania Tan

I come from a family of five, comprising four women and one man. We
have our fair share of annoying habits: those we used to have, those
we still have, and those I do not even want to imagine we might
develop in future. It is true that old habits die hard, so most of the
time, we’re better off learning how to deal with them than trying to
get rid of them.

(May I just add that it was a difficult task having to narrow the
number of annoying family habits down to only five.)

1. The brutal insensitivity: “Wow, you look ‘great’ today!”

Isn’t it interesting that family members think it’s okay to be frank
and tell each other nothing but the truth? While many of us will say
that we treasure truth, the honest truth is that we just can’t bear to
hear it sometimes, especially when it comes in any of these forms:
sarcastic, cold, brutal, or downright insensitive.

It could well be because we feel that our blood ties give us the
privilege to speak freely to each other. We make certain remarks or
comments to family members without thinking twice because, well,
aren’t we family after all? Friends, on the other hand, are more
likely to try to avoid upsetting or offending us. Of course, if these
hard truths were to be shared in a loving and gentle manner, we can
take them as part of character building.

So, for those of us dishing out the comments, perhaps we could hold
our tongues and think twice before making a comment. And for those of
us on the receiving end, perhaps we can be patient and find things to
learn.

2. The selfish mentality: “It’s my way or the highway.”

Is there a particular family member in your household who always
controls the television remote? Exactly. I often think: “When will it
ever be my turn to decide which channel to watch?” In my family, we
have one TV addict, another who loves switching channels during
commercial breaks (sometimes up to three channels), and yet another
who watches nothing but the news.

If this doesn’t happen in your home, maybe you’ll be more familiar
with the “hogging the shower” phenomenon. Well, you get the gist. It
brings me to my next question: When is the last time we gave in or
considered another before ourselves?

3. The never ending nagging: “Have you forgotten anything?”

Family outings or trips may not always be our idea of an ideal holiday
because, quite frankly, the nagging starts at the very beginning.
“Have you forgotten anything?” And just after we recover from our
irritation, we realize in horror that we did, in fact, leave our
toothbrush behind. The nagging resumes.

But have we ever considered that nagging could really be for our good?
Do we take the time to understand where our parents might be coming
from?

4. The repetitive ranting: “You do not want to know what happened to
me today . . .”

We’ve just had a tough day at school or work. We arrive home, drop our
things, and start ranting about the day’s affairs. Before we know it,
everyone else joins in and the whole family ends up talking over one
another. Everyone just wants to be heard.

It sure feels good after a rant, but let’s face it, when it comes to
listening to others, we tend to tune out of the conversation. Should
we learn to lend a listening ear and instead of just ranting, work
towards possible solutions to each other’s problems?

5. The perpetual miscommunication: “I thought you said that!”

Receiving a text that ends mid-sentence or a “You know what I mean”
comment from a family member can be frustrating.

Sometimes, we skip the little details in our daily conversations. We
try to shorten our sentences to save on typing long messages. We think
that we’ve got to know each other inside out, but we end up making the
wrong assumptions. It’s no wonder we always get to the “I thought you
said that!” stage.

How about not making assumptions, and instead making an effort to
convey our message clearly, and seeking clarity about what’s been
communicated?

Most families, if not all, have their own fair share of annoying
habits.

But let’s learn to embrace our differences, pray regularly for one
another, and not make mountains out of molehills. Ultimately, such
idiosyncrasies are what make each of our families unique. After all,
the Bible shows that God wants families to be the essential building
blocks of human society (Genesis 1:28) as we live out and advance the
gospel (Deuteronomy 6:5-7).

Finally, Galatians 5:22-23 can give us a guide on the characteristics
we can work towards as a family. “But the fruit of the Spirit is love,
joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness
and self-control. Against such things there is no law.”

Photo credit: Lotus Carroll / Foter / CC BY-NC-SA



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



