http://ymi.today/2016/02/all-alone-on-valentines-day/

All Alone on Valentine’s Day

Author: by Contributor

Written By JJ, Singapore

Valentine’s Day may be the season of love and romance for many, but
for some of us, it brings pain. It could be a reminder of love lost
through a recent break-up or rejection, or the loss of a loved one.
And although some of us are able to respond (with a strained smile) to
questions like “When are you going to find a boyfriend/girlfriend?” or
“When are you getting married?”, the questions inevitably have a way
of unsettling our already fragile hearts.

“Time heals all wounds” is the advice we are often given. But how can
we move on when the pain fills our minds and consumes our every waking
thought? What hope is there when our hearts are heavy and it seems
like we will never get over it? How can anyone out there understand
what it feels like to go through the seemingly unending hurt?

I went through a break-up recently after a five-year relationship. My
girlfriend and I had been struggling for months and eventually
realized that our lives were going in different directions. It was
really hard at the time to deal with the sudden changes to my life.
When I was attached, my instinctive response to seeing or hearing
anything nice, interesting, or funny was to share it with her, but
now, I no longer had the opportunity to do the same. My feelings of
bliss and happiness were replaced by an aching, empty silence. I
remember thinking: “What if I cannot move on? Am I going to spend the
rest of my life alone?”

Though the days were dark and the nights were lonely, I was reminded
through time with God and His Word that I was not alone. For Christ,
who came into this world as one of us, had also experienced the pain
and sorrow of being rejected, abandoned by those He loved, and left to
suffer alone. The Creator of the universe knows exactly how we feel,
because He has experienced firsthand our disappointments and hurts.

But Jesus is not only able to sympathize with us; He has also promised
to be with us. We may go through periods when we feel rejected by
those we love, burdened by unresolved questions, and lonely in a way
that no one seems to understand. But we can be sure that God will not
forsake us—He will walk alongside us, comfort us, and give us the
assurance of His presence.

And that’s not the end of it. Even though our relationships on earth
can fail, we can look forward to a perfect relationship in the
future—when Christ the Groom comes back for his Bride, the church. The
heartbreaks we face in this life cannot compare to the immense joy we
will feel at the wedding supper of the Lamb The heartbreaks we face in
this life cannot compare to the immense joy we will feel at the
wedding supper of the Lamb (Revelations 19:7-10). In fact, we can
already start to enjoy this relationship we have with Him now.

These truths were a great source of comfort to me after my break-up,
and they still comfort me today. Even though I am going to spend this
Valentine’s Day by myself, I can rest in my relationship with Jesus,
whose eternal love will never fail.

If you’re feeling lonely during this season of love and romance,
remember—you are not alone.

