http://ymi.today/2017/06/why-elisabeth-elliot-matters/

Why Elisabeth Elliot Matters

Author: by Charmain Sim

Screenshot taken from YouTube

Two years ago today, Elisabeth Elliot went home to the Lord at the age
of 88.

A prolific speaker and writer, Elisabeth was one of the most
influential Christian women of our time, best known for her writings
about missions, gender roles, romance, and living right with God.

During my formative years, I was dealing with the usual questions of
identity and purpose: Who am I? Why am I here? Stumbling on her books
was a happy accident that helped me understand God’s principles and
stay grounded in them.

As we commemorate her two year death-anniversary, these are three
lessons I’ve gleaned from her life:



American pastor John Piper recalled how Elisabeth had once told him
(while they were on a panel together on world missions), “I don’t
think you should say, ‘Pursue joy with all your might.’ I think you
should say, ‘Pursue obedience with all your might.’”

Obedience defined Elisabeth’s life. She waited years for God’s timing
to start her relationship with her first husband, the evangelical
missionary Jim Elliot. Together, they obeyed God’s call to go to
Ecuador as missionaries. After Jim’s martyrdom, Elisabeth bravely
continued her mission work with a 10-month-old daughter in tow—in
spite of her fears and grief. She also obeyed God in returning to the
States a few years later. This pursuit of obedience didn’t come
naturally, but she allowed herself to be disciplined, purified, and
moulded into a vessel fitting for God’s use.

Elisabeth’s example influenced me in my own relationships. Granted, my
first relationship was a precious lesson in disobedience. And when I
finally obeyed God and ended it, it was not without scars. After that,
I learned from Elisabeth to trust God in His timing. Whether it was
ending a relationship or refraining from one, I had to learn to obey.
It was tough because I was afraid that I’d “miss my chance”.

Today, I’m happily married to the man of my dreams. It wasn’t the
easiest path getting here, but it was the right one, and this life
wouldn’t have happened if I had not had the courage to obey.



When people were crying out for the redefinition of gender roles,
Elisabeth defended biblical womanhood. She was criticized, of course.
Some said she lived in the past. Others accused her life and message
of being contradictory.

But Elisabeth was no supporter of inequality, discrimination, or
stereotypes. She once said, “I am not here to defend stereotypes of
femininity, but to try to focus on the Original Pattern.” Elsewhere,
she explained, “To me, a lady is not frilly, flouncy, flippant,
frivolous, and fluff-brained, but she is gentle, she is gracious, she
is godly and she is giving.”

Whether you agree with her views on femininity, it’s hard to deny that
Elisabeth was a woman of principle. Interestingly, because of her
steadfastness and in spite of differing opinions, supporters and
dissenters alike respected her greatly.

To me, being a person of principle in today’s world means standing
firm in the Word even when others challenge its infallibility. It
means saying no to bribery or cheating, or saving sex for marriage,
when everyone else is doing otherwise. It’s not about being
legalistic. It’s about being true to what you stand for, and this
affects even the smallest of decisions.

Once, I had ordered a 12-inch Subway sandwich and was charged for a
6-inch. I was tempted to walk away with the extra cash. But I had to
ask myself: Do I want to be an honest person, or a person who takes
advantage of the mistakes of another?



Elisabeth was honest with her strengths, weaknesses, fears, and
doubts. She loved and lost twice, and was stricken with dementia in
her final years. She had good days and bad, and laughed as much as she
mourned. Whether she was wife, mother, missionary, author, or speaker,
Elisabeth never wavered and lived fully in her circumstances.

I’m learning a lot in this aspect. I’m currently a stay-at-home mom,
and often feel like I’m not doing enough. I should be writing more,
crafting more, connecting more. But there’s also that new cafe to
visit, and that Wonder Woman movie to catch.

In the age of FOMO (Fear of missing out), it’s easy to become
discontented and obsess about the next big thing. Yet all we need do
is focus on the things that matter and give them our best. It was Jim
who said these famous words, “Wherever you are, be all there! Live to
the hilt every situation you believe to be the will of God.”



Elisabeth could live out these three lessons because of her faith. It
was her confidence in God, in knowing her Father in Heaven is good,
that gave her daily courage to obey, to remain steadfast, and to live
without anxiety. She knew that she was “loved with an everlasting love
and underneath are the everlasting arms,” as she would say at the end
of her radio shows.

No human being is perfect, but Elisabeth is as good a role model as we
can get for this generation. Her values may appear archaic, but I
believe they are vital to navigating today’s world. While she adjusted
to her times and situations, she remained true to God. Likewise, we
too can be relevant in this postmodern world yet remain steadfast in
God’s principles. We too can be committed to upholding God’s standards
as lights that shine in the darkness.

May we, like Elisabeth, have the courage to obey, the will to stay
true, and the strength to live life to the hilt.



Charmain has a thing for chocolate, Jane Austen, and extraordinary
stories of ordinary people. A wife and mother of two, she is
uncovering what it means to live as loved, with eyes for eternity. She
writes because it helps her process experiences, and loves being
surprised by God—especially in the little but meaningful moments He
plants into her everyday.



