http://ymi.today/2015/11/sex-what-are-you-waiting-for/

Sex: What are you waiting for?

Author: by Kezia Lewis

I grew up in a dysfunctional non-Christian family, but my mother
raised me to be responsible, conservative, and cautious, to the best
of her ability. Though I was not explicitly taught to wait for
marriage before having sex, I knew that this was the right thing to
do. So I waited.

Oh, no, it wasn’t easy. I chose to wait—not because of God (I didn’t
know Him then), but because of myself. I waited because I was afraid
of the dire consequences that premarital sex could bring. I waited
because I was afraid it would lead to a child growing inside me. I
waited because my family was dirt-poor. We were hardly able to feed
ourselves daily, and I didn’t want to worsen our plight; another mouth
to feed would have added to my mother’s heartaches.

Naturally, I thought it was through my own sheer strength that I was
able to preserve myself. Now, I realize that it wasn’t so: God had
protected me from falling into temptation by constantly reminding me
of my family.

Waiting for True Love

When I became a Christian, I became familiar with the tagline, “True
love waits”, which encourages sexual abstinence. It resonated with me.
It sounded noble and wise, and it made sense. True love means waiting
to do it only after you say your marriage vows, and saving yourself is
the best gift you can give your spouse. And so waiting became the
solution to keeping myself pure.

Then I met and heard of Christians who had signed pledge cards, worn
purity rings, and spent their whole lives waiting (a decade or
two)—and had gotten tired of it. They felt left out, isolated, and
lonely. Some became weary of waiting and watching friends enjoy sex
outside marriage. It was as if they had given up something exciting,
desirable, and adventurous before settling down. So they dumped the
cards, the rings—and their virginity too.

Others who saw marriage as the answer to their discontentment rushed
into it. They got hitched on an emotional high, expecting their spouse
to satisfy their longings. Then they realized the bitter truth: the
marriage bed wasn’t enough to fill the void. Expectations weren’t met,
and hearts got broken and disillusioned.

Yet others adhered to the promise they had made to stay pure only
because they feared God’s wrath. As a result, their relationship with
God was reduced to law-keeping—a joyless affair. Some even treated God
as nothing more than a matchmaker in their quest to finding true love.

While I have nothing personal against the tagline and it may even
offer a good reminder to stay pure, may I suggest that we shift our
focus from the vow of abstinence to what it truly means to follow
Jesus. Waiting is not the way to purity. Jesus is. The One who can
thoroughly fulfill us is already ours; we are already His. He is not
the way to get to someone who can make us happy; He is the One who can
make us happy. Our true satisfaction rests on God, not on marriage or
sex. No matter how good these things are, they will not fulfill our
true internal longings; only God will.

The Right Perspective

God created us for intimacy; He designed us to have relationships.
Part of that design is sexual intimacy, where we become one flesh with
another human being. It is a beautiful act that God ordained to
celebrate our marriages. So it’s not surprising for us to have this
desire to be one with another person—but it is to be enjoyed only
within the boundaries of marriage.

Yes, we should abstain from sex outside marriage because God wants
that. But we cannot sustain this by simply waiting for the day when we
are given the license to have sex. As a friend of mine who is a pastor
once said, “Making a commitment to purity is easy; keeping that
commitment is a challenge.”

This statement rings even truer today. Remaining pure on our own
strength in our current porn-saturated, tolerant-of-promiscuity
culture is next to impossible. If you’re waiting for marriage to have
sex, you might find yourself asking this question: How far is too far?
If you’re waiting for marriage to have sex, you might find yourself
asking this question: How far is too far?

I know this because I asked the same question over and over again at
different points in my life before I was married. And though I waited,
I was constantly thinking of ways and means to give in to my natural
tendencies. The fact is: we have innate and intense desires that make
abstaining very hard. Some people are able to control those desires,
but most don’t— as evidenced by our society’s current deteriorating
state concerning sex.

How about we approach this issue with a different perspective? How
about, instead of focusing only on the value of abstinence or being
married or experiencing sex, we seek our value in God? Because by
doing so, we will long to please Him and we will begin to ask
ourselves this question instead: How can I honor Him with my mind and
my body?

How Can We Get There

To initiate this paradigm shift and find our worth in God, these are a
few of the things we can do to feed the Spirit and starve the flesh:

And above all: be motivated to know Him more and enjoy Him through our
daily encounters. Make Jesus the center of our world. I can say from
personal experience that, as we revolve our lives around God more and
more, the inclination to act on something that would dishonor Him
becomes lesser. I can say from personal experience that, as we revolve
our lives around God more and more, the inclination to act on
something that would dishonor Him becomes lesser. We’ll find the
strength to resist temptations; we’ll become increasingly predisposed
to do the right thing even when it is extremely hard and even if no
one is watching. Abstinence and sex become inconsequential because we
are too fixed on God to even think of them. Our relationships become
more about how God sees them and what God wants to do with our lives
instead of trying to derive happiness from them.

I want to leave you this final encouragement: saving ourselves is not
the best gift we can give our spouses. Our relationship with God is.
For when human love fails, God’s love is enough to carry you both ’til
death do you part.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Relationships“



Kezia resides with her husband, Jason, in Krabi, Thailand where she
serves alongside him in the ministry under Sowers International and
teaches English at a local Thai school. She and her sister were named
by her mom (who has not read the Bible before that) after two of Job’s
new daughters (Job 42:14). She sees that as God telling her she is
“His daughter.” She loves to call God as Father for He is that to her.
She feels particularly calm when it rains and loves to be near any
body of water.

She blogs at kezia-lewis.com.



