http://ymi.today/2017/11/are-we-just-having-coffee-dates-with-god/

Are We Just Having Coffee Dates with God?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Ross Boone, USA

Sometimes, after a good, long time of Bible study, I go right into
sinning. When I am alone at home, those sins that prey on solitude can
easily sneak in. For me, it is often lust.

And sometimes I don’t stop it. It feels good so I feed it. But
afterwards I tell myself, “I spent some quality time with God this
morning, and I know He forgives all our sins, so I think we’re still
cool.” And I continue my day without a second thought— with no regret,
nor a plan to change.

But a little while ago during my quiet time, I came across Matthew
7:21 where Jesus says, “Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’
will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of my
Father in heaven.”

That was sobering.

Growing up, the main message I got from church was that having a
relationship with God was the most important thing. And I thought the
right relationship mostly meant just getting quality time with Him
each day.

But that verse got me thinking. Maybe I had been looking at my
relationship with God in the wrong way. The messages from the pulpit
made me think God was soft and happy and doesn’t care too much about
little sins. The contemporary worship songs I was exposed to were
mostly about God’s grace and love for us. Sermons were often about
God’s love, how we should love others, and about God’s infinite
forgiveness.

I learned that Jesus is “super relatable” because He has gone through
everything I have gone through. I got the idea that God was my buddy.
He’s cool with me just the way I am. The vague message seemed to be,
“It’s okay if you sin; you can be forgiven. What’s important is
relationship, relationship, relationship.” I seemed to have convinced
myself that although God was super powerful, He was ultimately my
nice, and infinitely forgiving, buddy.

In my nice, Christian, American culture, staying in right relationship
with my “buddies” usually just means hanging out every now and then.
Grabbing coffee from time to time. I think that’s what I projected
onto my relationship with God. I just had to get some quality time
with Him every day or so. Even if I continued in my favorite little
sins, we were still pretty much in good standing.

But as I considered this verse on doing the will of the Father, I
started thinking that maybe my relationship with God was meant to be
more than just hanging out every now and then.



I thought about how relationships were before social media was the
norm, and when families and neighbors didn’t disperse across the
country. I thought about societies before this independent, ever-
changing, quick-in-quick-out lifestyle we live today. I thought about
when communities depended on each other to survive and neighbors were
neighbors for generations. Those times required deeper, more
multifaceted relationships. Relationships were a lot more than just
getting coffee once a month.

I think a key element of those old relationships was honoring and
respecting the other’s requests. If, in a moment of weakness, I stole
one of my neighbor’s sheep and ate it, that wouldn’t be cool. And if I
simply didn’t care and kept stealing his sheep when he asked me to
stop, I definitely wouldn’t be doing my part of the relationship very
well. It would make being neighbors very hard.

This principle applies to present day relationships as well. If it
were my very own father who asked me to stop something that was
hurting him and I didn’t even try, I would not be honoring him.

I’m also reminded of John 14:15, “If you love me, keep my commands.”
And this was recorded by the disciple who called himself the “disciple
whom Jesus loved” and who was such close friends that he laid his head
on Jesus’ chest at the last supper. They were buddies, but this
commandment-keeping-love isn’t what comes to mind when I think of
hanging with my buddies. What I think this means is that a
relationship with God is also about a deep respect and obedience
because He is powerful and sovereign.

It can be likened to the relationship that kings had with their
servants. In modern terms, it’s like getting a phone call from our
most respected world leader asking something of us. Or a little closer
to home: think of the relationship you have with your best teachers or
your parents. I think our unique relationship with God is not just
having a close friendship, but includes the most honoring elements of
all of these as well. I think our unique relationship with God is not
just having a close friendship, but includes the most honoring
elements of all of these as well.

So what do I do about these sins that I keep returning back to? Romans
7:19 recognizes this tendency: “For I do not do the good I want to do,
but the evil I do not want to do—this I keep on doing.” But it
certainly isn’t saying that we can and should continue in our sins.

To me, part of the solution involves picturing God as more than just
our “buddy.” When we deeply value someone and hold them in high
esteem, we take their requests of us seriously. In the context of our
relationship with God, that means we start to take our sins more
seriously.

I’ve since started to pray for God to help change my desires, I’ve
made a plan, and I’ve partnered with one of my buddies to help keep me
accountable to my commitment.

Thank God, it’s helping.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

