http://ymi.today/2015/10/my-encounter-with-a-bigwig/

My Encounter with A Bigwig

Author: by Contributor

Written By James Abana, Nigeria

What a friend we have in Jesus All our sins and griefs to bear What a
privilege to carry Everything to God in prayer!

The Oxford dictionary defines “privilege” as “a special right,
advantage, or immunity granted or available only to a particular
person or group.” That we can bring everything to God in prayer is a
privilege indeed, one that should not be taken for granted.

I had a taste of what being privileged meant when I was a student at
college. It started when I decided to showcase my skills by presenting
the vice chancellor with one of my paintings. When I shared the plan
with my friends, they told me it would be very difficult for me to
meet the vice chancellor face-to-face. One of them said, “The
secretary won’t let you in. She’ll collect the gift and present it to
the vice chancellor or even toss it in the trash can.” Another person
said, “The vice chancellor is such a busy man. He may ignore you.
After all, you’re just a student.” Some others said, “Just try your
luck. You may have the privilege of meeting him.”

Despite the lukewarm support, I decided to head to the administrative
block. At the entrance to the vice chancellor’s office, I was stopped
and interrogated by a uniformed security guard. He eyed me
suspiciously before letting me in.

Opening the door, I saw a man of average height, with stocky
shoulders, cropped hair, and bloodshot eyes. It was clear that no one
could pass him easily. I stated my business and handed him the wrapped
painting I had brought. He scrutinized it before returning it to me,
and bellowing, “Move on!”

I entered the outer office. Before I could utter a word, a woman
seated at a glass table asked, “May I help you?” “Yes ma’am, I’m here
to see the vice chancellor.” “What do you want to see him for?” she
asked, eyes still glued to her computer screen. “I came to present him
with a gift.”

I handed her the beautifully wrapped frame. A minute or so later, she
finally finished what she was doing, took what I was holding out, and
looked me in the eye. She frowned, “I hope it’s not a letter bomb.” I
couldn’t help but laugh. “Of course not,” I said.

“Ok, hang on.” There was another lengthy pause before she opened a
drawer to retrieve a slip and a form for me to fill out. She then
directed me towards another door. Opening it, I saw several people
seated in a fully air-conditioned waiting room, surrounded by
newspapers and magazines.

I sank into one of the executive sofas, picked up a magazine like the
rest and started flipping through it. Over the next two hours, the
secretary came to call us in one by one. Finally, it was my turn. I
got up, collected the frame, and followed her as she opened the heavy
security door to the inner office.

As l stepped into the magnificent room, l was in awe. I felt as if l
was floating on air. The vice chancellor offered me a seat as he
extended his hand to me. “What can l do for you, young man?” he asked.
“Sir, I have something for you,” l replied, and handed him the gift.
As he opened it, I took in the details of the room. My attention was
drawn to a 14-inch color television set sitting on top of his cabinet.
Its screen showed what was going on in the waiting room. The fact that
he could see everything going on outside was a little unnerving.

My thoughts were interrupted by his sudden exclamation. “Wow!” he
said, as he gazed at the artwork in his hand. “What a marvelous piece
of work. Where did you get this piece from?” he asked. “Sir, it’s one
of my paintings,” l replied. His eyes widened in surprise. “What are
you studying?” When he heard my answer, he immediately said, “Oh no,
you are in the wrong place.”

He went on to ask me a lot more questions about myself and finally
said that he would support my skills. “James, you’ve impressed me
immensely. Thank you very much.” “Thank you sir,” l said in return. As
l stood up to leave, he gave me another warm handshake and thanked me
again.

As I walked out of his office, I congratulated myself in amazement.
All the interrogation and hours of waiting to see this man had been
worth it. Back at the hostel, all my friends bombarded me with
questions. “Did you manage to see him?” “Yes, and I shook his hand
twice!” I triumphantly declared.

There is something special about standing in the presence of a famous
personality. But while opportunities to meet with such people are few,
we all have the chance to stand before and talk to someone greater
than the greatest king, president, or celebrity. But while
opportunities to meet with such people are few, we all have the chance
to stand before and talk to someone greater than the greatest king,
president, or celebrity. The psalmist knew exactly how great this
experience was when he wrote in Psalm 16:11, “You make known to me the
path of life; you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal
pleasures at your right hand.” I wish that every person will enjoy a
taste of this experience.

And the best part is—unlike my encounter with the vice chancellor—you
don’t need to “buy” your way in to see Him with a gift. The Scripture
assures us: “Let us then approach God’s throne of grace with
confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in
our time of need” (Hebrews 4:16).

And while human leaders will forget us eventually (just like my vice
chancellor did), God will never abandon us. As the Bible records,
those who come face-to-face with the Lord will be transformed. In
God’s presence, the impossible becomes possible and many mighty things
happen.

So let’s make good use of this rare privilege that God has given us.
Consider the example of Jabez, who cried out to God, ‘“Oh, that you
would bless me and enlarge my territory! Let your hand be with me, and
keep me from harm so that I will be free from pain.” And God granted
his request” (1 Chronicles 4:10). If God granted Jabez such a request,
wouldn’t he do the same for us? So let’s seek God and His kingdom, and
all these things shall be added unto us (Matthew 6:33).

