https://ymi.today/2017/12/its-time-to-re-examine-why-you-celebrate-
christmas/

It’s Time to Re-Examine Why You Celebrate Christmas

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

We had barely entered the month of December when the Christmas lights
went up in my new neighborhood. But it was the cheerful Christmas
carols permeating the air each morning that was the icing on the cake
for me.

The magical atmosphere filled not just my street, but everywhere in
Manhattan—in stores, offices, restaurants, homes. In my home, Frank
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Bing Crosby, Aretha Franklin, and Irving Berlin
crooned Christmas songs from my speakers, bringing every room to life.

Though the ambiance seemed to lend weight to the fact that Christmas
is the most wonderful time of the year, I know that not everyone
perceives it that way. For many, it’s a stressful, commercialized
season of gift-giving, so much so that people forget the real reason
for the season. Some others can’t share in the joy of Christmas as
they do not understand what Christmas stands for, because they have
different religious views or hold to no religion at all.

On my recent trip to China, I noticed a distinct absence of Christmas
decorations or holiday spirit in the region I visited. The weather was
warm, and the focus was on a different religion. It seemed like I had
been transported to another reality.

During my stay, I found myself thinking less about Christmas. I didn’t
stop praying, communing with God, reading my Bible, or anything like
that. But I was no longer reading an advent devotional I had
previously stumbled upon online.

That experience, along with my usual end-of-year reflective mood, got
me asking myself some hard questions and re-examining my motives for
the holiday season:

Though my trip to China showed that I had the tendency to be
influenced by the culture and environment I was in, it was precisely
that realization that forced me to consider the true significance of
Christmas and why I bothered to celebrate it.

The answer was obvious enough: If not for Christmas, there’s no hope
for anyone of us. Christmas, like Easter, is a landmark event in the
salvation story. If Jesus hadn’t humbled himself, taking the form of a
feeble baby, experiencing weakness, trials, joys, and pains and
eventually dying in our place, we would never have been reconciled
with God. We would have nothing to live for and nothing to look
forward to as we go through the challenges of life. And this is why I
will always make it a point to celebrate Christmas, no matter where I
am.

And though we can always express our thanksgiving for His sacrifice
every day, it is a good practice to set aside a day to commemorate
Jesus’ birth, reflect on what Christ’s birth signifies, and marvel at
and worship Him.

Sure, we could get worked up at the way our culture celebrates
Christmas today, which seems to strip the season of its true meaning.
Instead of finding fault with the parties, family reunions, gifts and
celebrations, however, how about reminding ourselves to be thankful
that this same secular society allows us the opportunity to worship
freely?

As Christians, we can choose to engage in thoughtful reflection on
what it meant for God to send His only begotten son to become like you
and me, just so man could be reconciled to Him (John 3:16-21).

So though I have my Christmas tree and lights up and have adopted some
other traditions associated with Christmas, I am glad that this time
around, I am more mindful of the reason for the season than I have
been for years.

