http://ymi.today/2017/09/why-must-i-wait/

Why Must I Wait?

Author: by Amy Ji

We live in a society of instantaneous information, fast-food, and the
automated everything. There is little choice but to become tech-savvy,
productive, as well as highly efficient. The downside for a generation
like ours is that even a five-minute wait may be unbearable.

So we find things to do while we wait. Waiting for a bus? Queuing for
lunch? Time to check your email and refresh that Facebook feed. The
problem comes when there’s nothing to distract ourselves while we
wait. This makes waiting an absolute pain.

Yet, aren’t we always waiting for something? Like the single waiting
for a God-fearing spouse. The anxious student waiting for her
university entrance results. The young man in National Service waiting
for his release date so he can go back to civilian life and grow his
hair out again. Married couples waiting for their first child.

It has been 16 years now since I first heard God’s call to serve Him
in the mission field. This call has been affirmed by church leaders,
prophesied by youth camp speakers and reinforced during my own quiet
time with the Lord. Yet here I am, stay-home mum to a toddler in my
home country, married to a would-be pastor who will have to fulfil a
four-year bond upon graduation from the seminary.

To be honest, the wait is frustrating. Even though I know none of us
in the family is ready for the field, I still can’t wait to be sent.
Every year, our church has “Missions Month” and the speaker invariably
calls for a response on the last Sunday of the month. As a youth, I
used to run down to the altar with my hands raised. In recent years, I
have walked to the front in quiet obedience, all the time asking,
“When Lord, when?”

This year went very differently. I decided not to step forward, after
reflecting on a couple of lessons God was teaching me about waiting:



As difficult as waiting may be, all of us are called to wait.

We are all passing through our earthly lives as pilgrims, waiting to
be taken home to that eternal resting place Jesus promised to bring us
to. But this time of waiting is not to be an idle one. Instead, Jesus
commands us to make disciples and accompany the Holy Spirit in doing
the Father’s work.

A single missionary I lived with for a season while serving in
Thailand recently celebrated her 60th birthday in Singapore. Whenever
she’s asked why she isn’t married, she simply replies that God might
still be preparing her to be the best bride—and if not in this
lifetime, then for an eternity with her Lord in Heaven.

But instead of sitting around, she’s someone who exemplifies the
saying “never waste a single moment”. She wakes up at five every
morning to pray and prepare breakfast before going on her rounds to
visit the villagers. She goes about the Lord’s business
faithfully—discipling, praying and serving those around her.

While waiting for the fulfilment of our human desires, why not eagerly
pursue the things upon our Heavenly Father’s heart? While waiting for
the fulfilment of our human desires, why not eagerly pursue the things
upon our Heavenly Father’s heart? For most of us who have been
believers for some time, it could mean investing time to conduct Bible
study, counsel young believers or even mentor the youth in our church.



Waiting at the feet of the Lord gives Him pleasure—which is what Mary
did while Martha busied herself in the kitchen. Jesus said that Mary
had chosen what is good and that would not be taken from her. This I
believe, refers to the words of the Lord Jesus, God Himself.

We all wait upon the Lord differently. While some prefer to scribble
in their leather-bound journals, others plug-in and listen to Bible
passages on the go. Whether you are the type to pray in a quiet room
or while you prepare dinner for your family, what matters most is
waiting on the Lord. His words have life, and in receiving them, we
will experience much joy.

In observing godly sisters waiting for a child, I’m put to shame by
their display of faith in God. Rather than choosing to get angry or
blame Him, they instead fully depend on Him to give them strength as
they wait. I see how God rewards their time spent with Him and how He
personally ministers to them in their tears, giving them immeasurable
joy from His word.



God Himself is waiting for us to come to repentance. 2 Peter 3:9 tells
us that “The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some
understand slowness. Instead he is patient with you, not wanting
anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.”

So this month, instead of asking God “when”, I learned to ask Him
“why” instead—Why am I still here? That’s when I realized that the
Lord a role for me now, right where I am. There’s still my extended
family I have yet to reach out to. The youth in my home church and my
ministry to fellow young mothers. The foreigners in seminary I ought
to welcome into my home. And so many more.



For those of us waiting for whatever it might be, may I encourage you
with this: don’t wait, because God has work cut out for you right now.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



