http://ymi.today/2017/11/thank-god-ive-got-fingers-and-toes/

Thank God I’ve Got Fingers and Toes

Author: by Contributor

Written by Stacy Joy, USA

I will never forget pulling away from a leprosy colony in Southern
India the summer of 2003. I was 13 then and had just helped my family
conduct a worship service for a couple dozen Christians in the colony.

As our car bumped along the terrifyingly narrow, one-lane mountain
road, I vividly remember looking at my fingers, studying them for a
couple of moments and then letting my gaze fall to my feet, and then
to my toes. That quiet moment felt like it lasted forever as I became
lost in my thoughts. I softly whispered, “Thank you, God, that I have
fingers and toes.”

My view of thankfulness radically changed that day.



Thanking God isn’t just a prayer before dinner; it is a way of life. I
realized that nothing is guaranteed to me—not even the limbs on my
body. As we walked among the lepers in India, my 13-year-old eyes fell
upon limbs rotting away as people still lived. My narrow, westernized
view of what life owed me shattered, and I realized that I had never
thanked God for the simple, beautiful blessings I have surrounding me
each and every day.

To have the ability to stop within the craziness of life and thank God
for the breeze, the trees, the beauty of sunlight, the ability to
walk, even to see—it’s a life-giving spiritual discipline that can
easily be overlooked. To have the ability to stop within the craziness
of life and thank God for the breeze, the trees, the beauty of
sunlight, the ability to walk, even to see—it’s a life-giving
spiritual discipline that can easily be overlooked. Chuck Swindoll, a
well-known American pastor, said that thankfulness is a decision of
the will—one which takes work.

God created us to live a life of thankfulness. 1 Thessalonians 5 calls
believers to give thanks in every circumstance. This is not Jesus’
idea of a self-help theory. He knew that thankfulness does something
to our very being, to our soul. It psychologically and spiritually
decreases stress, anxiety, and worry.



I am currently working toward an advanced degree in counseling, and
the more I study, the more I realize that training oneself to live a
life saturated in thankfulness is one of the greatest ways to remove
worry, fear and anxiety. This is not merely a psychological tool. It
is a spiritual reality discussed in Philippians 4:6: “Do not be
anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer and
petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God” (emphasis
added).

The passage doesn’t end there. It goes on to say that after we have
presented our requests, worries and anxieties to God (which, by the
way, shows a trust in His sovereignty and His will for one’s life),
peace that transcends our understanding is promised! That is a
beautiful, exciting and powerful promise.



Dietrich Bonhoeffer, a German pastor and theologian who was killed in
a Nazi Concentration camp for opposing Hitler, once said, “It is only
with gratitude that life becomes rich.” If a man persecuted and living
in a concentration camp is able to utter those words, then may we all
be prompted to remember all of the things—both small and large—that
God has bestowed upon us, and thank Him for them.

Pastor and author John MacArthur sums it up aptly: “A thankful heart .
. . stands in stark contrast to pride, selfishness, and worry. And it
helps fortify the believer’s trust in the Lord and reliance of His
provision, even in the toughest times. No matter how choppy the seas
become, a believer’s heart is buoyed by constant praise and
gratefulness to the Lord.”

Would you join me this month and intentionally thank God for something
different each day? Try it out for a while—I guarantee it will forever
change your ability to see beauty amidst pain, suffering, and even the
humdrum of daily living.

