http://ymi.today/2017/09/the-day-i-stopped-comparing/

The Day I Stopped Comparing

Author: by Contributor

Written by Hilary Charlet, USA

Who remembers dial-up Internet, a limit on the amount of texts you
could send per month, and the handy-dandy flip phone? What about the
Gameboy, LeapPad, and board games?

Now it’s the Xbox, Wi-Fi, and live streams for everything. Our
generation has seen so many technological advancements, and we’re
still young. It’s pretty scary to think about how much technology will
continue to change everything, and not always for the better.

And then there’s social media: Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter.
My niece has a bunch of other apps too that I’ve never even heard of.

It takes literally seconds to post a status or photo. But it can
impact someone else for much longer. How often do we think before we
post something? Is it something that will encourage others, or tear
someone down? Is it posted out of spite and bitterness, or love and
hope, to bring others joy?

Every day, I see engagements, weddings, pregnancy announcements,
babies, happy couples, new jobs, vacations and more. I love being able
to stay connected with people I’ve met throughout my journey,
especially since many of them live all over the US. It makes it easy
to keep up to date with their lives.

This is the good side of it. Now, let’s talk about the bad.



We’ve become harsh with our comments, envious of the lives of others,
stuck in a rut of comparing our behind-the-scenes lives to someone
else’s highlight reel.

We see people our age getting married and wonder if we’ll ever meet
our significant other. We see others going on vacations and take for
granted the time that we have with our family and friends on a little
weekend road trip, because it isn’t an island resort, so how could we
have a fun time?

We become so focused on what others are doing that we forget to be
present and appreciative and thankful for the blessings right in front
of us. We forget that we’re blessed beyond measure, even if it isn’t
in the same ways that our family and friends are.

If you’re reading this right now, you’re alive. We aren’t ever
promised tomorrow, so isn’t the gift of another day something we
should not take for granted?

If I’m honest, I used to struggle with comparing myself to others.
I’ve never really known what I’ve wanted to do with my life. Until I
started blogging and writing, I really had no idea, and now that’s all
I really want to do, even if people think it’s silly. I was envious of
those who’ve known since childhood what they were going to do when
they “grew up”.



It was two weeks before my college graduation and I still hadn’t found
a job, unlike many of my friends. There I was, a little nervous but
expectant, because God had been stirring in my heart that He had
something planned for me. It was something I would never have
expected, and something that’s challenged me but allowed me to grow my
faith and trust in Him daily.

You see, I’ve worked six different gigs since graduation. These
opportunities have taken me all over the place, on planes and subways
and BMWs and Ubers and more. It took me way out of my comfort zone,
but led me somewhere new.

The first took me away from home for four months out to the east
coast, with a team I’d never met until I arrived for training. We put
on events in over 50 different locations, all of which brought fresh
faces and new places. After that, I worked other contract positions
for the same company, all of which began with me not knowing anyone
beforehand. I could choose between two things when I began: be afraid
and timid at the idea of being uncomfortable in not knowing anyone or
anything about the location I was in, or embracing where God had led
me and make the most of it. While everyone else is coming up to their
two-year job anniversary, here I am. And I couldn’t be more glad.

If He led me somewhere, then He needed me to be there. If He put a
group of people in my life, I needed them, or I would somehow be a
part of their story that they needed. I learned everything I could,
experiencing every moment as it came, and loving in any way possible.

I didn’t want to waste my time wondering why God wasn’t showing up in
certain areas of my life while He was busy showing up big in other
areas. Instead, I had to choose to show up where He wanted me, and to
be joyful, patient, and expectant in the other areas.

For the first time, I stopped comparing myself, my journey, where I
was at and where I was going and every other aspect of who I was with
others. Instead, I put my focus on God’s plan for me and being
completely present wherever I was.



But it didn’t mean I stopped having desires and expectations. While in
Michigan for a few months last year, I started dating a guy from there
whom I was pretty convinced I was going to marry.

God must have laughed at that. He knew that I’d have my heart broken
more than once (yes, by the same person) and that it would challenge
me to the core. He knew that I’d be stuck comparing myself to someone
else for way longer than I care to admit. But He also knew that
through that trial, I’d learn to lean on Him more than I ever have.

While I was praying for our relationship to grow, God knew I instead
needed my relationship with Him to grow. He knew what was going on
behind-the-scenes, while I was clueless. He knew the man I had picked
out for myself to marry had instead picked someone else to pursue,
sometimes simultaneously, other times after our “break-ups”.

When the truth wound its way out one night, I didn’t know how to feel
or what to do. It hurt, a lot. There stirred in me my self-doubt,
wondering why I wasn’t good enough to be someone’s first choice, what
I did wrong, how I could have been a better girlfriend—the list goes
on.

It’s funny how we think we know what we want, when it’s sometimes
totally different from what we need. I had wanted a Godly relationship
more than anything, but what God showed me is that a relationship with
Him was what I needed then and what I need right now I had wanted a
Godly relationship more than anything, but what God showed me is that
a relationship with Him was what I needed then and what I need right
now —to take my focus off another person, and instead focus on getting
my heart and soul back to where it needs to be, back in the center of
His embrace. Back to knowing that I am God’s first choice— always and
every day.

The day I stopped comparing my life to those around me, I felt the
chains break. I felt joyful, hopeful, excited, and free.



Where God has you right now, whether you’re in the valley or on the
mountaintop, He is there with you. He wants you to be free of all of
the lies and labels society tries to put on you. He doesn’t want you
to be addicted to the virtual world when there’s so many in the world
right in front of you that need your light and love.

If you’re in a season of waiting, wait expectantly. He has a plan for
you, and it’s so good.

If you’re feeling undeserving and not good enough, stop.

Know with your whole heart that you’re loved, you’re more than good
enough and He’s going to use you in ways that you can’t even imagine.

Don’t let social media sucker you into believing that your life is
less valuable than another. Don’t let the words and actions of others
cause you to question who you are or whose you are. Don’t spend your
time wishing your life was like someone else’s.

Marvel at God’s goodness to grant you another day because you’re here
for a reason, and that reason isn’t to dwell on what you do not have.

The day you stop comparing is the day you will be free: free to be the
one God created you to be. Embrace it and be the hope, the love, the
flame that could ignite a fire in the souls of every life you touch.

