http://ymi.today/2017/04/why-am-i-getting-baptized/

Why Am I Getting Baptized?

Author: by Agnes Lee

I was baptized some years ago by immersion—but not for the reason you
might think.

At the time, my fiancé and I were looking for a church to get married
in. The church he attended was a beautiful church, the ideal setting
for a wedding. But there was a problem: church policy required that
both of us had to be baptized before we could get married there.

Although my husband-to-be had already been baptized, I was still
exploring. Though I had said the sinner’s prayer earlier on, it was
only to please my fiancé. I was not ready to commit to Christ, much
less get baptized. But I decided to go through pre-baptism classes so
that we could be married in that beautiful church.

It was not a true conversion. It was merely my way of getting a
glorious wedding venue. But I hid my motive well and I was
successfully baptized, but it was a baptism without meaning. My faith
was dead; I had bluffed my way in. I had lied to everyone about my
conversion.

Over the past few years, I have been attending another church, and
through Bible study there, I was convicted that what I had done was
wrong. I saw my former baptism as a mark on my sinful past―a lie.

But God did not abandon me even though I had lied. Even though I did
not take Him seriously in the past, He was gracious to save me and
make me His own. He led me to see that my baptism was not “the pledge
of a clear conscience towards God” (1 Peter 3:21); it was the opposite
of what God expected of us. Ashamed, I repented of my wrong motives in
getting baptized.

A clear conscience towards God in baptism is to have no other motive
aside from following Him with a sincere heart. It is important that we
do not take God’s name and His grace towards us for granted. God
cannot be mocked, and nothing we do can be hidden from His sight
(Galatians 6:7, Hebrews 4:13). We should check our hearts and our
motives in everything that we do, and in everything we should seek to
bring glory and honor to God, including in baptism (1 Corinthians
10:31).

As I reflected on my own sin, I learned of other reasons we as
believers could have when considering whether to get baptized.



Some people get baptized so that they can better fit into a church
culture where almost everyone is baptized. Some churches, for example,
have a rule that only baptized members can come forward to receive
communion. There may be many people who are already baptized, and it
is easy for those who have not been baptized to feel left out.

Don’t feel pressured to fit in. God does not need us to fit in. He
only needs us to seek Him.



Some people get baptized in order to please family members or friends,
or because they feel pressured by others and do not wish to be a
disappointment. However, these can become the wrong reasons for
baptism.

Baptism should not be for the purposes of pleasing other people. If
your family or friends are true believers, they would want you to
please God instead of them.



Some people think that they can be saved by getting baptized. Before I
became a believer, I had this wrong understanding as well. I thought
that baptism was a means to salvation. However, our salvation cannot
be earned. No deed of our own can please God or earn us salvation.
Instead, salvation is a gift freely given by grace, and the only way
to receive it is by the gift of faith (Ephesians 2:8-9).

Baptism is an outward declaration of faith to follow Christ. But it is
not a requirement of salvation. The thief at the cross next to Jesus
recognized that Jesus is God, but this thief was not baptized.
Nevertheless, Jesus said that he would be with Him in paradise (Luke
23:43).



Baptism reminds us that our past is dead, and that we are now alive in
Christ, redeemed, resurrected, and restored. However, if our heart is
not ready and we do not have a clear conscience towards God, we should
consider taking a step back. We should take time to prepare our
hearts, to set it right before God so that we can truly enjoy the
beauty and significance of baptism. God does not blame us for being
slow, since He knows our hearts. He is pleased when we seek Him and
honor Him above our own motives, and that is more important for our
true salvation.

Our preparation for baptism should draw us closer to God, and help us
to align our will with His will. We can ask God to search our hearts
(Psalm 139:23), to weed out any of our own fleshly motives and turn
our hearts to follow Him, so that we can be pleasing to His sight.
Philippians 2:12 says we are to work out our salvation with fear and
trembling. When our hearts are purified, God becomes our sole desire.

As I learned more about baptism, I wondered if I should be re-
baptized. But a few trusted Christians that I talked to assured me
that, by grace, God accepts my previous baptism as my commitment to
Him. I am content with this assurance, and I take my baptism as a
reminder of my sinful past and God’s faithfulness at work in my life.



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



