http://ymi.today/2016/09/what-singleness-taught-me-about-love/

What Singleness Taught Me About Love

Author: by Contributor

Written by J Koon, Malaysia

While having lunch with a girl friend one day, we touched on our
favorite topic as single girls: relationships.

Contrary to what many romantic drama serials and movies portray, the
life of a single professional woman (especially if she is a Christian)
is far from one of romance and constant social activity. It is instead
constantly plagued by worry and questions about what God has in store
for her as far as relationships are concerned—and this is amid her
usual concerns about career advancement and financial stability.

Among my single friends, I often hear laments like:

“There are no single Christian guys left.”

“I have prayed but God doesn’t seem to be hearing my prayers.”

“I have been holding out for a Christian guy for so many years. Maybe
it is time that I consider anyone who comes my way, no matter what his
beliefs are.”

Having experienced a break-up a year ago, I can empathize with these
thoughts. It is easy for us as singles to slide into a despondent mood
and wonder if we’d ever find someone. It becomes all the more
difficult as we watch people around us get attached, married, and
eventually, have families of their own.

Regular social media updates of our friends’ married or family lives
don’t make it any easier. They can even trigger a mild sense of panic
as they constantly remind us of our ticking biological clocks. With no
partner in sight, we may sometimes even wonder if there’s anything
wrong with us.

It is probably because of this mindset among singles that the apostle
Paul wrote this in 1 Corinthians 7:7-8: “I wish that all of you were
as I am. But each of you has your own gift from God; one has this
gift, another has that. Now to the unmarried and the widows I say: It
is good for them to stay unmarried, as I do.”

Isn’t it intriguing that Paul uses “gift” as well as “good” to
describe those who are single? Paul would have known how it felt,
being single himself! But why don’t we feel that way about singleness?
Why do singles feel stressed to get attached as well?

Perhaps we’ve allowed society’s expectations to get to us. Perhaps
we’ve been building our identities on what others think of us and
we’ve allowed our worth to be determined by whether or not we have a
partner who loves us. So what if we don’t have these things? Does it
mean we lose our identity and worth? Who or what do we find our worth
in?

When people ask about my love life, I’m often tempted to reply, “What
love life?” But truth be told, I do have a love story, I do have a
love life. I remind myself that the greatest love story was not of
Romeo and Juliet, or of Mark Antony and Cleopatra, or even that of
Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal. The greatest love story was when God sent
Jesus to come into our world to live among us and sacrifice His life
for us on the cross. The greatest love story happened when God offered
us forgiveness for our sins and gave us new lives as His children.

Remembering my identity as a precious child of God brings such worries
and problems in my life into perspective. When I’m depressed and
lonely, the thought of being a daughter of God reminds me of my
identity in Christ. When I’m depressed and lonely, the thought of
being a daughter of God reminds me of my identity in Christ. I have
the empowerment of the Holy Spirit that enables me to be confident of
my worth and in God’s perfect plans over my life.

I still hope that I will get married one day. But I know that even if
that does not happen, God is an ever-loving Father who has my best
interests at heart and I needn’t fear the future.

