http://ymi.today/2016/01/a-letter-of-condolence-to-the-us1-6-billion-
lottery-winner/

A Letter of Condolence to the US$1.6 billion Lottery Winner

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh, Singapore

Dear Lottery Winner,

Having just heard of your winning the record-breaking US$1.6-billion
Powerball lottery jackpot in US last week, I would like to offer you
my deepest condolences. I was told you had to share it with two other
winners, which means you get just US$528,800,000, but I’m sure this
doesn’t make your unfortunate circumstances any better.

There’s a pain in my heart, knowing that there’s a high chance that in
seven years, you will be bankrupt, depressed, or kidnapped. Or dead,
either from suicide or murder. Apparently that’s what happens to 7 out
of 10 big-time lottery winners. May that never happen to you!

You’ve probably started making sensible plans to invest or lock away
most of your millions, donate some of it to charity, help your family
and friends out, and give yourself a well-deserved treat.

That’s how many big-time lottery winners start out. Unfortunately, the
majority of them tend to drift into reckless spending on luxury items
(big mansion, flash cars, maybe even a private jet), daring
investments in high-risk ventures, and lending to friends (you’ll
suddenly have more of these) and “needy” relatives. Before they know
it, they’ll be a change in lifestyle, one which tends to involve
drugs, casinos, and conmen. A number of them don’t last the seven
years—either they take their lives after a prolonged period of
depression, or get killed by greedy relatives seeking a slice of their
wealth. Some of the most often-quoted words I’ve heard from these
winners are, “I wish I never won the lottery.”

It is with much pain and grief that I think of you every day.

Because you’ll find that winning isn’t everything, and that money
really doesn’t really buy happiness. Most of us know it in principle
and remind ourselves of it, partly because we’ll never have the
opportunity to test the theory out. But you, my friend, will have to
walk this difficult journey on your own.

For you’ll find that while your millions will buy you some fun and
happiness for a few weeks or months (maybe even years, if you’re
prudent), in the end they will not get what you really desire—a sense
of significance and belonging, the love of family and friends, and a
purpose in life.

In fact, you might lose all these. Either you’ll be harassed by greedy
family members, or hounded by a horde of new friends you would never
have made. You’ll probably stop working, only to find early retirement
pointless and purposeless. And you’ll lose all sense of reality,
because it will seem that everything can be purchased and there’s
nothing to keep you going any more. There’ll be nothing left to aim
for or dream about, and no one you can truly trust. Oh, you poor
thing!

Worse, you’ll probably start drifting away from God, because, to be
honest, you won’t need Him any more. Not when you can rely on your
millions to get what you want or bail yourself out of any problem.

At first, it might seem wonderful to know you can depend on yourself
and not need to keep going to God for every small need. But after a
while, you’ll probably find yourself sadder and lonelier, because
nothing can replace the closeness of God and the fellowship of other
believers. Only then will you realize that Jesus’ living water isn’t
about happiness and provision, but about true joy, contentment, and
peace. Like a child whose ultimate joy is knowing he has the love of
his parents—and not another new toy—you’ll find that belonging to God
is the greatest thing on earth, and not US$528,800,000.

Is there any way I can help you? Can I suggest that you give it all or
most of it away? It seems that the lottery winners who donated all
their winnings or put them into trust funds for charity and future
generations are the only ones who are still happy. It’s ironic to hear
about how they stayed happy by giving it all away, but it really does
seem to work.

Can I encourage you to keep your focus on what matters in life, and
not see money as the solution to all your problems in life? For money
is merely the means to an end, and while you’ll need it for the basics
and a bit more, in the end you really won’t be able to buy happiness
with it. Keep your eyes and heart on the eternal things of God,
because that’s the only things that will bring you true joy and
contentment.

Please don’t think I’m being envious in saying all this. Yes, in some
moments of my life, I too wish I was a little richer and had a little
more money. But I know that it will not make me any happier, at least
in the long run. I try to be contented with what I have, and be a good
steward of what God has already blessed me with. I hope you can do the
same too . . . I’m just so worried you’ll end up like the 7 in 10
lottery winners—miserable, bankrupt, or dead.

And please, please, stop playing the lottery. Because you might win it
again.

Photo credit: tsand via Foter.com / CC BY-NC-SA

