http://ymi.today/2017/09/a-shattered-dream-isnt-the-end/

A Shattered Dream Isn’t the End

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

A fairy princess? A queen? Those may be some of the typical titles
that little girls aspire to, but that wasn’t me.

Believe it or not, my dream was to become a “physical therapist
missionary in Africa”. That childhood aspiration pointed to my early
interest in the field of rehabilitation, but also, my belief that I
needed an exciting or even unusual life in order to be useful to God.

I felt a little adrenaline rush from stories like Daniel in the lion’s
den and accounts of modern, brave missionaries meeting jungle tribes.
“Wow”, I’d think, “God can only work through super-Christians like
them.” My life, on the other hand, often felt too pleasant and
ordinary to be of use to God.

It’s true that being willing to risk losing your own comforts,
reputation, and safety for the sake of Jesus can be a precious gift
that yields extraordinary returns. But what about the more or less
mundane lives that many of us have? Can a mostly-ordinary life be of
use to God too?

My plan to become a physical therapist missionary changed slightly
over the years, but even through graduate school, I remained committed
to the hope of one day joining a team of rehabilitation therapists. I
intentionally made sacrifices for my educational goals, fully
expecting my chosen priorities to result in a life well-spent. Despite
my goal-oriented and focused quest, an unforeseen event caused my life
to go in a wildly different direction.

Up till about five years ago, I had subconsciously visualized what a
self-sacrificial and well-spent life dedicated to helping whomever God
set in front of me would be like. I expected my years of sacrificing
sleep for exam-prep to open doors to an exciting and useful life.

Then I got into a near-fatal car accident.

Instead of becoming a licensed provider, I was the recipient. And
instead of caring for those in need of therapeutic intervention, I had
to humbly receive it.

Now, having completed years of focused rehabilitation, my life is back
to normal, even mundane, and is far from what I had anticipated. But I
am encouraged by the many stories in the Bible of those whose lives
took dramatic turns away from their plans, and were eventually used by
God in ways beyond their imagination. I am encouraged by the many
stories in the Bible of those whose lives took dramatic turns away
from their plans, and were eventually used by God in ways beyond their
imagination. For example, we usually marvel at the disciples’
experiences and their years of intimate interactions with the Savior,
but even their lives weren’t always so interesting!

Peter, a disciple of Jesus who later became a pillar of the church,
spent his early career as a simple fisherman. Although we’re not told
about these quieter years in Peter’s life, surely they were still
purposeful in preparing him for his great calling. Even the young
woman Mary, who became the mother of Jesus, may have felt somewhat
insignificant going about her day-to-day schedule, unaware of the
great honor about to be given her. And going further back in Biblical
history, the story of Abraham is recorded. While he would become the
“Father of many nations”, there was a time when Abraham and his
elderly wife didn’t even think they could have a child.

As many other Biblical and historical accounts prove, our God loves to
work magnificently through the weak and the most unlikely of
circumstances.

I’m not making predictions about my future career, but I’m in awe of
what God has already accomplished through the hardest time in my life.
I am still amazed by all the chances I’ve been given to speak and
write about the clinical and spiritual applications of what I’ve
learned. I still aim to return to the world of clinical rehabilitation
and believe I have a unique perspective to offer that community. But I
have grown to recognize my current reality as valuable, too.

So let’s not minimize the miracles God can accomplish during a relaxed
coffee date or a quiet hour of reading. While His work may certainly
include adrenaline pumping, dramatic conversions, He is not limited to
the stories we would label as thrilling. However quiet your life may
seem right now, please don’t underestimate the eternity altering
potential of your current journey.

