http://ymi.today/2017/10/the-day-i-believed-in-jesus-and-broke-my-
dads-heart/

The Day I Believed in Jesus and Broke My Dad’s Heart

Author: by Contributor

Written By Chen Pei Fen, Singapore

“Look at what you’ve done by becoming a Christian! You’ve deserted the
family tradition. Your father feels like a failure. He couldn’t keep
the family together.”

My mother was upset. Her distress was obvious as she attempted to
persuade me to forsake my newfound faith. My father, meanwhile, was
quietly heartbroken. He hadn’t slept well for several days, because
his daughter had chosen to abandon family tradition and follow a
“foreign” God.

I was 15 and had just accepted Jesus Christ into my life. I had made
this decision with great joy, knowing I had done something
significant. But now, I found myself in a storm. It pained me to see
my parents so sad and disappointed.

As my mother pressured me to change my mind, I felt like I had to
choose between Jesus and my parents. If I wanted to obey my parents
and avoid hurting them, then I would have to abandon my newfound
faith. But could I not follow Him and still love my parents?



I was born into a traditional Singaporean Chinese family. My parents
are of Hakka descent, one of the main Chinese dialect groups. Like
most Chinese families, we were brought up to worship Chinese deities.
We also burned incense and offerings to our ancestors to provide for
their needs in the afterlife.

When a person brought up in such traditions decides to become a
Christian, he is seen not only as abandoning his traditional faith,
but also betraying his heritage. He brings shame on his family and
community by following a foreign religion and putting his loyalty in a
foreign god.

But none of this seemed to matter when I was making up my mind to
follow Christ. At that time, the only thing that concerned me was
whether it made sense to believe in Jesus. I had been asking questions
such as, “Who am I? What is my purpose in this world? Why is the world
so messy, and is there a solution? What happens after I die?”
Christianity seemed to have all the answers.

It all started when a Christian friend, Veronica, explained the Good
News to me. She shared with me what she learnt in the Bible, invited
me along to evangelistic events, and showed me verses like John 3:16:
“For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that
whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.”

Although I had been asking questions about life, my own was going
pretty well at the time. I had a loving family, was popular with my
peers, and was doing well in both sports and studies. I didn’t feel
that I needed God. While the answers that Christianity gave to my
questions seemed reasonable, I didn’t see a need to make a personal
commitment to follow Jesus.

But one evening, as I was lying on my bed, I just felt really empty.
So I prayed, “God, if you are really God, can you please show me who
you are?”

Soon after, on a Saturday afternoon, I was walking towards an ice
cream store when a stranger stopped me. She asked if she could share
the Good News with me. Trying to be polite, I agreed. By then, I had
heard it so many times that I could even recite the verses. But
something happened that day. When the woman shared John 3:16 with me,
the verse cut straight to my heart.

At that moment, I believe, the Holy Spirit touched me, and the truth
of John 3:16 went from my head to my heart. All of a sudden, I truly
understood what the verse really meant. I saw that “the world” that
God “so loved” included me. I felt the weight of sin and recognized
how terrible a sinner I was, and how much I needed Jesus. I finally
understood why He had to die on the cross for me and appreciated just
how much God loved me.

As the truth hit me, I couldn’t stop crying. For the first time, I
realized that I was a sinner. At the same time, I felt grateful for
God’s offer of forgiveness. That day, I confessed my sins to Jesus and
received Him as my personal Savior and Lord.

The joy I felt, however, soon gave way to a sense of trepidation. I
thought about the implications of my decision, and immediately
realized how my parents would feel and react. “What have I done?” I
thought. “What will my parents say when they find out?”

But the woman assured me that being the first in my family to become a
Christian was a significant spiritual event. She reminded me of how
Paul and Silas, after being freed from prison by a miracle, reached
out to the jailer (Acts 16:30–31). When he asked them, “What must I do
to be saved?” they told him, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will
be saved—you and your household.”

Of course, Paul and Silas did not mean that the jailer’s family would
be saved simply because he himself believed in God. Salvation comes
through a personal, individual response to God; it cannot be “passed
on” or inherited. However, the gospel can gain a foothold in the lives
of a family through the first person to turn to Christ. It opens the
door for the rest of the family to hear and see the gospel in action.

These verses gave me hope that one day my parents and siblings would
also come to know God. I had the opportunity to become the first
messenger, the first witness of the gospel to my family.

But first, I had to face their objections.



For the first few months, I kept silent about my newfound faith. I
didn’t dare tell my parents for fear of what could happen. I also
didn’t dare go to church, but was sustained spiritually through
constant prayer, reading the Bible, and regular meetings with
Christian friends who taught me about God after school. Every morning,
I spent time praying to God and reading the Bible, but hid it after I
finished so that I would not be found out. The secret, however, didn’t
last long.

One day, I forgot to put the Bible away and left it on the table. My
father spotted it and recognized it. Being a traditional Chinese
father, however, he did not confront me directly, but asked my mum to
question me about it. Soon after, she sat me down and went straight to
the point: “Why is there a Bible on your table?”

There was little else I could do but admit that I had become a
Christian. My mum didn’t know what to say and could only shake her
head in dismay. For the next few days, nothing happened. Both she and
my dad kept quiet about the matter, but I felt the tension in the air.
I knew that there would be more to come.

Days later, my father personally handed me a handwritten letter and
left for work without saying a word. In it, he wrote of his
disappointment and sadness at me becoming a Christian. He spoke of his
failure as a father to keep the family together, and of the possible
consequences of my actions. “How can we have two different gods in the
same household?” he pointed out.

Having pledged our loyalty to one set of deities, my family believed
that we would have peace, harmony, and security—everything that my
parents desired for us. But now, by turning my back on what we
worshiped and choosing to follow Jesus, I would anger the deities and
put my family’s well-being at risk.

That same afternoon, my mother sat me down and followed up on the
letter. This time she was visibly agitated. “Your father hasn’t been
sleeping well,” she told me, her voice rising. “He’s very disturbed.
He feels like a failure. Look at what you’ve done! You’ve not been a
filial daughter—after all that we’ve done for you, is this how you
repay us?”

I didn’t try to defend myself or argue with her, but just listened in
silence. Perhaps mum was hoping to change my mind there and then, but
since I didn’t respond, she gave up after a while. I went back to my
room to think about what she said—and to seek God’s help.

“Heavenly Father,” I prayed with a heavy heart. “I’m so sad because of
how this has affected my family, but please help me to stay strong in
the faith. I know you are real, but I need strength to endure. What
should I do?”

I faced a dilemma. I felt as if I was being asked to choose between
God and my parents, yet both were important to me. My parents wanted
me to give up this “foreign” God, yet I knew I couldn’t. At the same
time, I didn’t want my parents to feel as if I was deserting them.

Jesus spoke about this challenge in Luke 14:26, “If anyone comes to me
and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children, his
brothers and sisters—yes, even his own life—he cannot be my disciple.”

Jesus wasn’t asking His disciples to hate their families in the
literal sense. He was challenging them to weigh the cost of
discipleship and ask themselves if they were ready to make Him the
Lord of their lives. What Jesus was really asking was this: How far
are you willing to go to follow me? Are you ready to put me before
your family? Are you prepared to give up everything that you hold
dear, including your life?

I now faced this challenge. How far was I willing to go to follow
Jesus? Was I willing to face my parents’ displeasure for making Him
Lord of my life? And how was I supposed to reconcile and “balance” my
love for both Jesus and my parents?



I was hoping to get specific instructions on how to answer my mum and
dad and what to tell them. Instead, I received a simple directive from
God: Be His witness.

The answer gave me great comfort. It was as if God was telling me that
I had done the right thing in choosing to follow Him, and my mission
now was to share my discovery with my family. I wasn’t being asked to
choose between Jesus and my parents; I was being tasked to share
Jesus’s love with them.

Luke 6:39 emphasizes the importance of us recognizing and
understanding the truth ourselves before we seek to share it with
others. Jesus said, “Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not
both fall into a pit?” We cannot lead others in the right direction
unless we are sure that the path we are taking is the correct one.

This verse gave me great encouragement. Now that I had found the
truth—that only Jesus can save us—I could lead my family to this
wonderful discovery. And the best way to do this was by loving and
honoring my parents. Through my words and actions, I could show them
Christ, the Lord and Savior of the world.



This is an excerpt from Discovery Series, Keeping the Faith: The Cost
of Following Christ. Read the rest of Pei Fen’s story here.

