http://ymi.today/2016/01/how-to-break-up-your-marriage-to-work/

Married to Work? Here’s How to Break Up

Author: by Contributor

Written By Faith Yong, Singapore

“Faith! Join us after service today for lunch . . . Don’t tell me
you’re working on a Sunday again . . . you’re always working!”

Unfortunately, it was true. Week after week, Sunday after Sunday, I
would attend service and mingle briefly with my cell group mates
before rushing off to grab lunch so that I could reach home earlier—to
catch up with work.

Although I was physically in church, my heart and mind were elsewhere.
I was constantly on my phone monitoring office WhatsApp group chats. I
would fidget or feel uneasy if I did not see any work-related message
or email.

I was also constantly postponing meetings with friends. I was spending
less time at home and more in office, because I craved my bosses’
approval and affirmation. I was desperate to hear my bosses say,
“Great job, Faith, here’s the ‘A’ that you worked so hard for . . .”

I was married to work.

Yet, in spite of my efforts and the long hours I put into work, the
“A” grade that I craved never came. Instead, what I got was anger,
disappointment, and discontentment.

The turning point came when a close friend asked me one day: “If I
were to remove work and the organization that you work for, who are
you? What are you working for?”

I was dumbfounded. That night, I lay awake thinking about why I was
working so hard. Unable to sleep, I Googled “hard work, bible” and was
directed to Colossians 3:23-24—two verses that I had highlighted in my
Bible long ago, but had neglected to observe.

“Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the
Lord, not for human masters, since you know that you will receive an
inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the Lord Christ you are
serving.”

The Bible does not frown on hard work. In fact, the author of
Colossians, Paul, exhorted and encouraged it. But he stressed that the
goal of hard work should not be to win our earthly masters’ favor. Nor
did he mention achieving top honors. Rather, he focused on two key
aspects: the condition of our hearts, and our reverence for God. As
children of God, we are, above all, servants of Christ; our goal is to
win the approval not of human beings, but of God (Galatians 1:10).

How we work shows what we place importance on, and reflects our
identity in Christ. Are we looking forward to an inheritance and
reward which is eternal, or are we focused on earthly and temporal
rewards?

As I grappled with what it meant to be God’s servant—demonstrating
excellence in what I did, yet fully trusting that God’s reward was all
that mattered—I came to understand that resting in Christ was the key
to getting my heart right before God and having true reverence for
Him. In the process, I learned three things:

1. Physically retreat to a quiet place Amid the busyness of His
earthly ministry, even Jesus went away from the crowd and took time to
rest, meditate on God’s word, fast, and pray. Being free from
distraction and human chatter allows us to quieten and still our
hearts.

2. Pray and commit our time to God Once we have found a conducive
environment and time, we need to pray for God’s guidance and
protection over our time with Him. Because we have minds that wander
off easily, we need to ask God to protect this time and keep our minds
focused on Him.

3. Observe the Sabbath We often mistake going to church on Sundays as
observance of the Sabbath. But this is more than just the physical act
of setting aside a day to go to church. Mark 2:27 reminds us that “The
Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath”. The Sabbath is
God’s provision for us to relax from our labor, to refresh our bodies
and minds in Him, to commune with Him and fellow believers, and to
delight in all that God has done for us.

Finding rest in Christ requires us to exercise humility and
acknowledge that we need His wisdom and grace to get through the day
and our responsibilities at work.

Have you made an idol out of your work? Have you been over-committing
yourself to work, and failing to give God and your loved ones the
first fruits of your time?

