http://ymi.today/2017/12/can-god-be-trusted-my-struggle-with-
aspergers/

Can God Be Trusted? My Struggle with Asperger’s

Author: by Contributor

Written By Wu Yanping, Singapore

“Have you heard of Autism Spectrum Disorder?” David, my mission team
leader, casually asked me while we were having lunch at Makassar,
Indonesia, while on a mission trip.

“Yes, I have. In fact, I know of someone who has Asperger’s,” I
replied rather matter-of-factly.

There was a momentary pause. Through David’s hesitation, I had a
suspicion that he might be talking about me, but before I could pursue
that train of thought, he continued.

“If we were indoors and I told you that it’s going to rain, what would
you think?”

“It’s going to rain,” I replied.

“Well, it can also imply that you must close the windows. My daughter
has Asperger’s. My wife and I will instruct her specifically to close
the windows. I suspect that you may have Asperger’s based on my
experiences with my daughter.”

I kept quiet and did not say anything else, trying to process the
gamut of emotions I was feeling. “No, that can’t be. Asperger’s is a
boy’s problem,” I told myself as I mulled over what David said to me.

According to research, far more men are diagnosed with Asperger’s
Syndrome than women. How, then, is it possible that I have a condition
that tends to affect men? Could I really have Asperger’s?

As I thought about this, I started to recall my behavior on the
mission trip and several incidents that happened—being really
straightforward in my speech, saying “No” when our Indonesian host
offered me food, and going on and on about a specific topic with no
clue that others around were losing interest.

The short dialogue with David also triggered a distant memory from my
high school days. Back then, my teachers had expressed the same
suspicion, but I simply brushed it aside. I just thought that I had to
work harder on my social skills, and I tried to do so by mimicking the
words and actions of characters that I saw on TV shows and in movies.
It didn’t work for long, though, because some of their words and
actions were not applicable in the context I was in.

Upon returning to Singapore, I took online tests that diagnosed for
Asperger’s. The results supported what David said and confirmed my
worst fears: I have Asperger’s Syndrome.

Here are three struggles that people with Asperger’s face:



A former cell group leader once shared this passage from 2 Corinthians
12 with me as she prayed for me. “To keep me from becoming conceited
because of these surpassingly great revelations, there was given me a
thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. Three times I
pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me, ‘My
grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in
weakness.’ Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my
weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest on me.” (v 7-9, emphasis
mine)

As I thought about it, I realized that Asperger’s could be the “thorn
in my flesh” that I would have to live with for the rest of my life.
Questions flooded my mind: Why does God not heal me of Asperger’s when
He is more than able to? Why do I have this condition that makes me
socially awkward among people?

But God in His grace led me to discover the answer to these questions
in the same passage—perhaps He did not heal me because He wanted me to
depend on His power. Another verse from the Bible that spoke to me was
Ephesians 2:10: “For we are God’s workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.”

I am a beautiful work of God, created to do good works! It’s all part
of His plan.

These new revelations led me to gradually accept my condition and look
at it from a new perspective—God’s. I started to depend on the Holy
Spirit for help in social situations, such as to guide and nudge me to
stop blabbering when I got excited about something, and to maintain
eye contact when I was speaking to someone.

A final note to all of you who may have a loved one or friend who
struggles with Asperger’s: Please be patient with us. Please relate to
us in love (with the Holy Spirit’s help, of course), especially in
moments when we might not understand the meaning behind what you are
saying or when we are unable to empathize with you and your problems.
Remember that it’s not because we don’t want to, but because we are
unable to.

It will take a while, but I trust that God is teaching us all to
depend on Him and through our relating with one another. It is a
process of His sanctifying work in our lives, transforming us more
into the likeness of Christ, so that we may bear much fruit for His
glory alone.





*Autism is a condition that is used as an umbrella term to describe an
impaired cognitive ability to socialize. People with autism have
trouble reading facial expressions and body language. Asperger’s
Syndrome is one sub-type of autism. People with Asperger’s Syndrome
are at the higher functioning end of the spectrum. For example, they
are able to complete a higher level of education.

