http://ymi.today/2015/04/why-i-started-thinking-about-resurrection/

Why I Started Thinking About The Resurrection

Author: by Tracy Phua

I was having dinner with a good friend one evening, when she suddenly
asked, “So what exactly is Good Friday all about?”

It was the first time anyone had asked me such a question, and I was
caught off guard. Thankfully, I managed to recover from my surprise,
and explained to my friend, who was of another faith, what Good Friday
means to Christians.

The episode, however, got me thinking about what Jesus’ death and
resurrection truly means for my day-to-day living. After some thought,
I came to three conclusions

1. Through Christ’s resurrection, we are assured that He is the living
God.

This simply means that He has conquered death and so will we (2
Timothy 1:10). With family members falling ill and having to go for
biopsies and surgeries, I often face much worry and pain. However, I
take comfort in knowing that no matter what happens, we will be
reunited for eternity. Of course, the momentary physical separation
will be sorrowful, but because of what happened at the Cross, I have
hope that we will meet again.

2. Through Christ’s resurrection, we are given grace.

Grace means receiving something we do not deserve. Jesus’ death on the
Cross was an act of grace, giving us salvation through faith (Eph
2:8-9). I confess that I am sinful; I often harbor angry thoughts and
feelings of bitterness. Yet, I know that I am saved—though only
through His grace. Every day, I am reminded that it is by His grace
that I am alive. I like what writer Dave Branon says about grace in
his book Stand Firm: “Grace falls on us like rain from above, straight
from God’s hand to ours—unregulated by our worthiness.” How true!

3. Through Christ’s resurrection, we are given mercy.

While grace means receiving something we do not deserve, mercy means
not receiving something we do deserve. God offered mercy when Jesus
died for our sins, purchasing every sinner with His blood. Given how
much of a sinner I am, I would probably deserve a much more terrible
death than Jesus. Yet God does not inflict that punishment on me. I
need His mercies every day, all the time.

This morning, as I woke up, showered, had breakfast and made my way to
work, I made a mental note of God’s grace and mercies in my life. No
matter what challenges I face today and what life may throw at me,
it’s a great day and a great privilege to be alive, because Jesus died
and rose again.

Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Heaven & Hell“



Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



