http://ymi.today/2017/08/god-makes-the-impossible-possible/

God Makes the Impossible Possible

Author: by Contributor

Written By Silvia Y, Indonesia

“So, what are you going to do now that you’re done with your
Master’s?” That was a question I was repeatedly asked after completing
my Master’s in International Relations in China.

I had just returned to Indonesia, and it seemed natural that I should
apply to a big company or enterprise. After all, they would offer me
the highest salary.

That decision could be assumed for most people. But somehow, I didn’t
hanker after it. I’m not very sure why, but I signed up for the civil
servant test in my country to become a diplomat. Although I was aware
of the stigma—that an Indonesian Chinese like me would not be accepted
for the job—I wanted to contribute directly to my country.

Of course, my friends and family members thought that my decision to
take the test was very ridiculous and would not end well. They advised
me against it and told me to change my mind before it was too late.

I understood their concerns—very few Chinese descendants in Indonesia
are able to become civil servants. However, it was not out of sheer
spontaneity that I decided to take the test.

I remember one Sunday after church service when I sat alone and prayed
for God’s direction. I was worried about taking the test, and had
asked God if taking the civil servant test was the right thing to do.

Immediately, I felt a sense of peace within me—I knew that God had
said yes. In Colossians 3:15, we are commanded to “let the peace of
Christ rule in your hearts.”  God may not have answered my prayers
audibly. However, I knew it was His Spirit giving me peace, comforting
me and assuring me to go on.

God affirmed my decision to listen to Him. After four consecutive
tests that I took over a period of three months, I was chosen from the
thousands of people who applied. Others would say that I was accepted
because of my ability, but I am certain that it was because God had
guided me through each phase.



Recently, I was reminded again that God is always in control. After
praying earnestly, I decided to take on a Master’s program offered by
my office. This time, I hit a seemingly insurmountable problem: the
lessons would be taught in French and I would need to master the
language first.

The last time I attended classes, I could barely pass the elementary
A2 level. To take a Master’s that was offered in French, I had to
obtain a French language certificate at B2 level.

Fortunately for me, there was a two-month-long preparation class I
could take prior to  taking the official B2 level language test. The
class was a very intensive one; it lasted from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
for six days a week—our only break being Saturday.

Each day, I would go back home after class and pray that God would
give me the necessary wisdom to understand all the French readings.
Compared to my three other classmates, I was behind and I struggled to
catch up.

My colleagues—who were of another faith—jokingly said that they wished
I would fail the language test so that I could continue organizing the
big forum we were planning for next year. I shared this with another
friend at office—who belonged to the same faith as them—and she said:
“Let’s see whose prayer would be answered—yours or theirs.”

It was probably a nonchalant remark but it impacted me. I felt like
failing the French test would show that I was worshipping the “wrong”
God in their eyes. I poured out my worries to God and again, God gave
me peace and assurance that I could do it.

This time, God used other believers to speak to me. My supportive
parents kept reminding me that I would be able to do it because God
was with me. Each time I prayed, I became more convinced that God was
in control. Each time I prayed, I became more convinced that God was
in control.

In 2 Corinthians 12:9, Paul reminds us that God can use our weaknesses
for His glory: “But he said to me, ‘My grace is sufficient for you,
for my power is made perfect in weakness.’ Therefore, I will boast all
the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest
on me.”



Since then, I’ve learned to ask God what He wants to do with my life
before considering the most appealing option in my limited human eyes.
Even though God’s answer may seem impossible when we look at it with
our own finite wisdom, I have faith and peace in Christ. If God tells
me to go ahead and pursue it, I know everything will be fine and I
just have to obey.

We really should not underestimate the power and importance of prayer.
Our prayers may not be answered immediately or in the way we hope they
would be, but we can trust that our faithful Father hears and answers
them.

Thanks to the Lord Jesus, I am flying to the southwest part of France
this September for my Master’s in French Art, Language and Culture at
the University of La Rochelle. I am sharing my story because I cannot
keep the goodness of God for myself. I hope my story will encourage
you and serve as a reminder that God never fails in His promises to
take care of you.

Let us strive to live a life in which we make decisions that align to
God’s truth and divine will. Taste and see how good our God is, for He
provides more than what our heart desires.  All glory goes to God
above!

