http://ymi.today/2015/04/why-i-didnt-give-up-on-hope/

Why I Didn’t Give Up on Hope

Author: by Michele Ong

I once held a very dim view of the word “hope”. It sounded wishy-washy
to me. If hope was personified, it would be a weak-willed doormat with
no opinions of its own. To hope was to foolishly cling to the belief
that someone would grant your wish after you threw a couple of coins
down a wishing well. “I hope it doesn’t rain,” some might say as they
peer out the window to a grey, overcast sky. I read devotionals
telling me Jesus is my hope, the cross is my hope and Christ in me the
hope of glory (Colossians 1:27). But I never really comprehended all
of that.

A series of disappointing relationships coupled with the big question,
“What am I doing with my life?”, had me buckling under the weight of
despair and hopelessness. When I broke up with my former boyfriend, I
was terrified of ending up like Patty and Selma (the twin sisters from
The Simpsons with their unshaved legs and chain-smoking habit). Except
that I would be the New Zealand version, with a million stray cats
roaming about my front yard.

The thoughts I aired about my life were so negative, my sister had to
impose an “Oops Jar” penalty system, similar to a Swear Jar. Any
negative words would incur a $5 fine, which I had to deposit into her
Hello Kitty coin box, to be donated to an organization whose values
and mission I did not support. It was very painful.

But God, being my Father, would have the final say. One Sunday, my
pastor spoke on—you guessed it—hope. Hope, she said, was not a wishy-
washy, pie-in-the-sky fancy the world held. When we hope in God, we
are anchoring our hope on the sovereign One, the one who never fails
(Hebrews 6:19). When we hope in God, we are anchoring our hope on the
sovereign One, the one who never fails (Hebrews 6:19). That got my
attention. I felt like God had descended on earth to give me the
biggest telling off in my life. It struck me then that I had to change
the way I saw hope. Hope is not some weak-willed pushover. No, hope in
God, in the one who created the heavens and earth, is strong, secure,
steadfast, and confident.

When we hold on to hope, we are holding on to a lifeline which will
see us through the storms of life, through disappointment, hurt, and
hardship. With hope as the anchor of our soul, we can walk away from
the most tumultuous time in our lives, and say, “God, who is hope, has
held me.”

As we look at the cross this Easter, we’re also looking at the hope of
forgiveness, healing, salvation, and eternal life. So let us cling to
this hope, for it will never disappoint.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Heaven & Hell“



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



