http://ymi.today/2017/02/4-questions-god-asked-me-when-i-got-attached/

4 Questions God Asked Me When I Got Attached

Author: by Raphael Zhang

Photo taken by Rebecca Roberts

For some seven years of my life, I longed to be in a romantic
relationship almost every single day.

I imagined that a relationship would bring me someone who truly knew
and loved me, and vice versa. We’d be so happy sharing our life, joys
and fears, and helping each other grow closer to God. We’d understand
each other all the time and weather the storms of life together. Our
love would bring us both self-fulfillment and fullness of life.

When I got into a relationship around two years ago however, I found
that the reality was quite different from my ideals. God had to lead
me to confront many unhealthy defense mechanisms I never knew I had.



There were many times—especially during moments of misunderstanding
and conflict between my girlfriend and I—when I strongly felt the need
to defend myself. I did whatever it took to prove my point to her, to
defend my position so that I didn’t have to apologize, to
manipulatively use what she said to me before against her, to withdraw
from her emotionally when I didn’t want to get hurt further, and to
undermine her in a passive-aggressive way, among other things.

Over time, God helped me to understand that these defense tactics
arose from my underlying fear of being hurt. Furthermore, He led me to
realize that this boiled down to the fact that I didn’t trust God
enough to protect me from hurts. I eventually learned to apologize to
my girlfriend and repent before God.

God brought to mind that my best role model comes in the person of
Jesus. When He was arrested, beaten, spat on, mocked, whipped, and
crucified, He kept silent throughout this ordeal and chose not to
retaliate even though He was never in the wrong and could have called
upon legions of angels to crush those who were mistreating Him
(Matthew 26:53). Jesus trusted the Father totally. He knew that God
would vindicate Him and right the wrongs done to Him.

So when God asked me, “Do you trust Me?”, He was asking me if I would
trust Him, just as Jesus did—enough to give up my “rights” and to let
Him work in me and my relationship in the midst of my fears and
wounds.



Another major defense mechanism I’ve had to come face to face with was
blaming. When God asked Adam why he ate the fruit from the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil, Adam blamed Eve for giving it to him, and
Eve blamed the serpent for deceiving her (Genesis 3:8-13). Whenever
issues arose, I too found myself blaming my girlfriend. “If only she’d
change,” I’d think, “then things would be fine.”

This was something God wanted me to die to as well. He convicted me to
take ownership of my own issues and to work on changing myself first.
One day, as I was grappling internally over some issues between us,
God asked me, “Why don’t you live out what you want to see?” Instead
of me expecting her to change to fit me, God challenged me to set the
tone for what I’d like to see in our relationship.

He brought to my mind the picture of Jesus washing the feet of the
disciples. When Jesus served His disciples in this manner, He modelled
for them what the full extent of love looked like, and told them to do
likewise (John 13:1-17). In the same way, I am to take leadership by
role modelling the kind of behavior I would like to see in my
relationship with my girlfriend.



Another time when I was wrestling with an issue that I perceived as a
problem with my girlfriend, God asked me, “If she doesn’t change,
would you still love her?” That question caused me to search my heart
and ask myself if I really loved her as unconditionally as I claimed.

God was reminding me to accept and love her—unconditionally.



One night, after an argument with my girlfriend, I lapsed into another
one of my unhealthy thought patterns: comparing and complaining. I
thought of how I would do certain things for her, but she didn’t seem
to do the same for me. As I began comparing, I began complaining about
things I felt were unfair in our relationship.

In the midst of this, it occurred to me that since my girlfriend and I
were journeying towards marriage—in which the husband is to love his
wife as Jesus loves the Church and the wife is to love her husband as
the Church loves Jesus (Ephesians 5:22-33)—I had to prepare for that
by learning how to love her in a Christ-like way.

That’s when God asked me, “How does Jesus love you?” It stopped me in
my tracks, because I realized that Jesus’ relationship with me is very
unfair. He reached out to me in love even when I was God’s enemy
(Romans 5:10). Now that I am a Christian, He still loves me more
lavishly than I can ever love Him, He gives me more than I can ever
give back to Him, He forgives me much more than I deserved to be
forgiven, and He gives me more grace than I should ever dare to ask.

I understood at that point that I was to love my girlfriend in this
way. Instead of complaining about any perceived unfairness between us,
I was to commit to out-give and out-forgive her, and to always give
her more love and grace, because that’s how Jesus loves me. The Holy
Spirit was reminding me to be like Jesus and to love like Jesus.



One year ago, when I was telling a pastor about the various
difficulties I was facing in my relationship with my girlfriend, he
said, “Your relationship with her is actually about your relationship
with Jesus.” I didn’t fully understand what he meant back then, but I
now see his point: Unless I know Jesus and grow in living and loving
like Him, I cannot love my girlfriend well. American writer Liz Wann,
addressing women, wrote, “If you want your boyfriend to turn into a
husband who loves you like Christ, make sure he is walking with
Christ. How else can he love you like Him?”

So, in order for me to be more Christ-like, I need to first know Jesus
and walk with Him so closely that, as I’m more and more transformed
into His image (2 Corinthians 3:18), it becomes clear to others that I
have been with Him (Acts 4:13). This involves me being willing to die
to myself, so that Jesus can live in me (John 12:24-25).



To be sure, my girlfriend and I are very happy together and we do
share our joys and fears with each other. We’re growing in knowing and
loving each other better over time and in drawing each other closer to
God. But the intimacy and understanding we have now didn’t just occur
easily, but came through a hard-won process of learning to be more
Christ-like.

Throughout this time, God has taught me that giving up the self is the
way to true self-fulfillment, and that dying is the way to fullness of
life. I don’t get it right all the time, but I am committed to dying
to myself, so that I can love my girlfriend—and, God willing, future
wife—with the love that our Bridegroom Jesus has for His Bride, the
Church.





Raphael enjoys reading and writing, and experiences them as means of
connecting with the Word too beautiful for words. He believes there’s
no such thing as having too many books. Having been led by Jehovah-
Rapha to journey out of brokenness toward wholeness, he is passionate
about bringing God’s healing to others, so that the brokenhearted can
become wholehearted in loving God and people with all their heart,
soul, mind, and strength. He’s also crazy about cheeses, but his
greatest love is still Jesus.



