http://ymi.today/2015/11/me-and-my-first-world-problems/

Me and My First World Problems

Author: by Michele Ong

I was leading the high life in one of the world’s coolest cities.

Serving a three-month internship as a copy-editor in Beijing, China,
in the online arm of a national newspaper, I enjoyed a life of luxury.
I had a fully-furnished apartment at the newspaper’s compound to
myself (local employees had to share apartments), was given a monthly
allowance of RMB 2000 a month (USD$300, which was the equivalent pay
of a fresh Chinese graduate), plus the newspaper was delivered to my
doorstep every morning.

If I was feeling a little lazy, I could get a cleaner to clean up my
apartment for about RMB 50 (USD$8). I could shop as much as I wanted
and dine at expensive restaurants as often as I liked, without having
to watch my bank account.

Yes, life was good.

But I soon started finding the littlest of things to complain about.
The trivial matters I moaned about ranged from the lack of good coffee
to the exorbitant price of a hamburger, and the inconvenience of not
being able to log on to Facebook or Gmail.

When I missed snacks and candies from New Zealand—where I live—I asked
my sister to send me a care package filled with chocolate biscuits, a
fashion magazine (“in English, please, my brains are exhausted trying
to read Mandarin”), and a white cotton skirt, because Beijing’s
sweltering summer heat was killing me.

Don’t get me wrong. I was very grateful to be given the opportunity to
work in China. It was something I had my eyes on for a very long time,
and I could hardly believe my ears when I was told I had been given a
place at the newspaper. But my human nature got the better of me, and
soon, I was complaining at the drop of a hat.

You see, I had forgotten to leave behind that baggage marked “First
World Problems” when I headed to China. Having led a comfortable life
back home where hunger and poverty are terms I hear of but rarely see,
I took everything my host country had graciously offered me for
granted.

All that changed one day, however, when I ran into one of the
cleaners, a young mother with a primary school aged child, on my way
back to my apartment after lunch. It was a particularly hot afternoon
and I was hoping to sit in room with the air-conditioner turned up for
a bit before going back to work.

She was rummaging through the rubbish heap with a foot-long pole under
the noonday sun. The smell from the heap was unbearable. I had half a
mind to walk past, but my curiosity got the better of me, so I asked
her what she was doing on such a hot afternoon.

She told me that she was fishing for discarded plastic bottles and
containers to sell, because she needed every extra dollar.

We soon struck up a conversation, in which I learned of her hopes and
dreams. She wanted to get higher education, but had to let the
opportunity go to her brother because her family could afford to send
only one child to university. That also meant she had to leave her
hometown to look for work in a bigger city.

I felt myself growing hot with shame as I stood in front of her with a
tertiary education, an office job, and a comfortable apartment
(“You’ve a very luxurious unit,” she told me)—and complaining about
the heat.

I said I was happy for her to clean my apartment if she needed the
extra income. I also extended an invitation to her to have lunch with
me and my friends at a nearby restaurant. She declined the invitation.

One day however, she asked me if I could—before leaving China—drop off
any of my unused and/or leftover body wash, shampoo, and body
moisturiser, along with any food, to her. I was not sure if I had
heard her right. Why would she want my leftovers?

But my ears were not playing tricks on me. She said body lotions and
other toiletries (especially the American brands) were luxury items
for her, so she was willing to pick up anything I did not want. At
that instant, my First World Problems immediately disappeared, and I
saw things in a different light. I eventually gave her a few unopened
packets of chocolate biscuits and enough body lotion to last her a few
months before returning to New Zealand.

Have you ever been in a similar situation? If you’ve been fortunate
enough—like me—to be suffering from First World Problems,
congratulations. This means you are in a position to bless and help
those who are less fortunate.

You don’t even have to travel far to lend a hand to the marginalized;
just look around you to see how you are able to meet a need. If you
have a domestic worker in your home, perhaps you can bless her with a
kind word of encouragement or surprise her with a lovely present on
her birthday or Christmas. If you know of an old folks’ home or a
local orphanage in need of a lick of paint or a clean backyard for
residents and children to relax and play in, organize a get-together
with your local church to give these places a good spruce up.

Doing good deeds is more than just getting a warm, fuzzy feeling in
our tummies knowing that we have helped someone. Whenever we feed the
hungry, clothe the poor, and visit the sick, we are doing it for Jesus
(Matthew 25:35-40). God wants us to love and to help the marginalized
and the less fortunate. We are commanded to “defend the weak and the
fatherless; uphold the cause of the poor and the oppressed” (Psalm
82:3).

The founder of Christian aid group World Vision, Robert Pierce, once
said, “Let my heart be broken for the things that break the heart of
God.” Today, will you ask God to show you the things that break His
heart, step out, and meet that need?



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



