http://ymi.today/2015/11/if-god-is-good-why-is-there-so-much-evil-and-
suffering/

If God is good, why is there so much evil and suffering?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Adriel Yeo, Singapore

This must be one of the most perplexing questions Christians face. The
problem of evil and suffering is a thorny issue that has caused some
to fall away from their faith, prevented others from coming to God, or
discouraged some from growing deeper in their walk with Him.

When I started exploring Christianity, I had so many questions,
including the problem of evil and suffering. I read quite a few books
on Christian apologetics that attempted to address this question and
grappled with the issue for a long time—and I still have questions.

For some of us, steering clear of the issue might seem like the
solution, but I think it can be unwise to completely ignore this
problem, because many of us struggle with it constantly. If God is all
good (omnibenevolent) and all-powerful (omnipotent), He cannot
possibly allow evil, can He? If He does, then surely He is either not
all good or not all-powerful.

Philosophers such as Alvin Plantinga, Peter Van Inwagen, and William
Lane Craig have presented a strong case that allows for evil to exist
while maintaining that God is still omnibenevolent and omnipotent.
Plantinga, in his “free will defense”, argues that so long as God
grants free will to human beings, there will always be the possibility
of man committing moral evil—in which God cannot intervene, for to do
so would go against man’s freedom of will.

As to why God then allows free will, he argues in his book God,
Freedom and Evil that it is possible for a world in which human beings
have free will to be better than one in which humans do not. There can
be no love in a world devoid of free will, for example, because love
requires agents to make decisions voluntarily, without being coerced
to. He explains it further:

“To create creatures capable of moral good, therefore, He (God) must
create creatures capable of moral evil; and He can’t give these
creatures the freedom to perform evil and at the same time prevent
them from doing so. As it turned out, sadly enough, some of the free
creatures God created went wrong in the exercise of their freedom;
this is the source of moral evil. The fact that free creatures
sometimes go wrong, however, counts neither against God’s omnipotence
nor against His goodness; for He could have forestalled the occurrence
of moral evil only by removing the possibility of moral good.”

Such a relationship between God’s omnibenevolence and free will could
provide a helpful perspective as we try to understand why there is so
much evil in the world. But it is still limited. Here’s the reality:
while almost all of my friends whom I have spoken to about this are
willing to buy into Plantinga’s argument, they still have issues.
Intuitively, they just feel uncomfortable thinking about all the
seemingly unnecessary deaths that are happening around the world. The
amount of injustice doesn’t seem to make any sense, no matter what the
explanation.

This has led me to believe that the issue is perhaps less of an
intellectual problem, and more of an emotional one. The question about
evil and suffering has no easy answer because it is not about logical
possibilities or impossibilities. Rather, it is an issue of the
heart—we want to understand why people go through various
difficulties. In fact, to hear the cries of help and feel burdened is
a good thing, because it reveals a side of our humanity. As such, I am
not sure that any answer provided may be satisfying. A sweeping
statement like, “It’s because of sin” may not help a person who is
going through a difficult time.

Instead, as we ponder on why God is good and yet there is suffering,
perhaps we can consider this: why is there a historical Jesus, and a
crucifixion that is followed by an empty tomb?

When we look at the crucifixion of Jesus and His resurrection, we will
see not a God who doesn’t care, but rather one who does and is
determined to restore all of creation. That’s why He sent His son
Jesus to earth to die for us on the cross, so that we would be
forgiven of our sins, and raised Him from death, so that we have hope
of eternal life.

Sometimes, I wonder, how many Christians turned to God because they
were persuaded by how the Christian faith addressed the problem of
evil and suffering through Jesus’ death and resurrection? For me, I
became a Christian because I felt convinced by historical evidence for
the resurrection, and at the same time, felt deeply convicted that I
had disowned the God who had created all things. And while I continue
to ask questions about evil and suffering, I’ve come to realize that I
cannot make any sense of what is going on from my limited
understanding and perspective. I keep going simply because of the
truth of who Jesus is.

Personally, I think that if we focus solely on questions such as “Why
me?”, “Why now?”, or “Why must this happen?”, we’re never going to
make any sense of suffering, much less take any comfort in any
solution provided. Rather, I believe that being a Christian means
turning our eyes away from the “Why me?” question to the “Why Jesus?”
question. He is the object of our hope.

We may never be able to fully comprehend this issue, but what we do
know—and can take comfort in—is that God does care, and that the whole
person and being of Jesus attests to this truth.

The question of evil and suffering will always tug at our hearts, and
we will always struggle with questions regarding suffering. But we
know that it isn’t because God doesn’t care. He does and He has taken
action in setting the world right.

As N.T Wright says: “When we learn to read the story of Jesus and see
it as the story of the love of God, doing for us what we could not do
for ourselves—that insight produces, again and again, a sense of
astonished gratitude which is very near the heart of authentic
Christian experience.”



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Apologetics“

