http://ymi.today/2015/11/after-such-horrific-attacks-what-hope-is-
there/

After Such Horrific Attacks, what Hope is there?

Author: by Joanna Hor

It’s hard to keep track of everything that has been said about Paris,
Beirut, terrorism, and the state of our world in the past few days. So
many perspectives have been raised, and so many emotions evoked. But
what the recent spate of horrific attacks has really highlighted is
this: everyone is susceptible.

Nobody is immune; nobody is safe these days anymore. The latest attack
in France­—one of the country’s worst since World War II—is yet
another reminder of how terrorism can hit anywhere, anytime. Ever
since America was hit on 11 September, 2001, much of the world has
been living with a collective sense of fear and dread about who will
be the next target.

The Paris attack is sure to send many nations into another round of
self-introspection and scrambling to come up with a response to the
ever-growing threat of terrorism. Many are asking: Is there an
effective way to eradicate this threat once and for all? How can we
stop living in uncertainty and fear?

But what if we cannot eradicate terrorism? What if a solution to evil
and suffering can never be found? What if nothing can be done to make
our world a better and safer place to live in? A look at history would
suggest that this is most likely to be true. Atrocities are still
happening on a daily basis, with people killing each other over
differences in race, culture, and religion. Just yesterday, news
reports confirmed that a Russian airline jet that crashed at the end
of October had in fact been blown up by terrorists.

So what hope is there? If we look to ourselves, we’d probably never be
able to find a solution. If that’s the case, then what can we do?
Perhaps we need to start looking beyond ourselves and to look to the
One who is still in control, even though we may not understand what is
going on. Yes, it’s time to pray to God.

Take time to pray—for God’s deepest peace and comfort for those who
are grieving, for His justice to prevail, and for wisdom among global
leaders as they deliberate on the next steps to take.

Why? Because God knows exactly what’s going on and how we feel. He
knows the grief and anger of a person or a family who has lost a loved
one to a bomb attack or shooting. He knows the helplessness that a
community feels after it has fallen victim to a terrorist attack. He
knows the physical and mental suffering of those who have been taken
as hostages, and the anxiety that their families go through.

God knows because He has walked with His people through such
challenges. In the book of Romans in the Bible, the apostle Paul
encourages a group of people who were undergoing immense persecution
for their faith by reminding them of the power of Christ’s love.

“Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or
hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As
it is written: “For your sake we face death all day long; we are
considered as sheep to be slaughtered.” No, in all these things we are
more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that
neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present
nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything
else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God
that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”— Romans 8:35-39

We are unlikely to see an end to terrorism and human atrocities, at
least in this life. But we can be certain of one thing: Christ will
never leave us, not in pain, suffering, nor even death.

As we continue to reflect over the recent devastating events, let’s
approach Christmas with a newfound appreciation of Jesus. Thank God
for sending Jesus, for it is only through His coming that we can live
with hope, no matter what happens in our lives. And let’s make an
effort to reach out to others to demonstrate this love and share this
hope.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Social Issues“



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



