https://ymi.today/2017/12/when-crisis-strikes-at-christmas/

When Crisis Strikes at Christmas

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jonathan Hayashi, USA

I will never forget Christmas Day, 2014. It was the day my wife had a
panic attack*.

We were getting ready to leave for church that day. Feeling
overwhelmed, my wife began to bang her head on the wall, throw
kitchenware all over the place and scream at the top of her lungs. She
even tried to wrestle me to the ground. It was like nothing I had ever
seen before.

Our neighbors were ready to break down the door to take my wife away
from me. My church elders also came down immediately after hearing
about it and prayed over us as my wife was rushed to the emergency
room. We were in the hospital from morning till night. My wife was
then taken to a mental health facility for several days.

I remember making the difficult phone call to my in-laws. My knees
were jerking, chest pumping, and my thoughts rushed in different
directions. Hearing the response of my in-laws, my chest caved in and
immense guilt overwhelmed me as I realized I had failed my husband
duties to love and protect her daughter.

It was no peace-on-earth kind of Christmas, it was a hell-on-earth
nightmare Christmas. Everything was falling apart. I was ready to
leave the pastorate and the fear of divorce ran through my mind. Long
story short, my wife was eventually discharged but she had to start
taking medication, see a psychiatrist and a counsellor. The both of us
also attended marriage counselling for a period.

Three years after that traumatic incident, I wish I could tell you God
took away all the anxiety and depression my wife faced and we lived
happily-ever-after. That’s not what happened. She still faces anxiety
issues today but it has gotten better by God’s grace. Instead, God
used the incident to impress on me three important lessons why Jesus
needed to come for us.



As much as I longed to be my wife’s knight in shining armor, I wasn’t
able to rescue her from her anxiety.

All the books I had read on counseling, the conflict management
courses I attended and the lessons I had been taught reconciliation
were meaningless at the end of the day. This was bigger than me and I
had no control over it. I couldn’t fix her anxiety attacks with
eloquence of speech, the right human reasoning, or the degrees I had
received through my academic training.

When we realized that I couldn’t be the superman my wife wanted me to
be, and humbly admitted our need for Jesus, the only one who could
rescue us from this tragic event, that’s when God began to do the
restoring work in our marriage. I saw the Spirit of God do an inner
work in her to help her through her anxiety. “May the God of hope fill
you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the
Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.” (Romans 15:13)

Jesus is our only Hope on this earth.



When I first stepped into marriage, I thought that it would be
happily-ever-after. So I remember thinking to myself as I watched my
wife fall apart, “I didn’t sign up for this. I can’t do this!” It was
then I realized that marriage will never make me happy. On the
contrary, it revealed how broken and desperately needy we both were of
a Messiah.

I should not be looking to my wife or my marriage for what can only be
given by Christ. Jesus is the true Messiah and my true peace. British
theologian and author C. S. Lewis said it well, “If I find in myself
desires which nothing in this world can satisfy, the only logical
explanation is that I was made for another world.” We were created for
more than anything in this Earth can provide or satisfy.

I love my wife and thank God for marriage, but marriage is never going
to grant me eternal satisfaction. True eternal peace is only found in
Christ Jesus alone. “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace
among those with whom he is pleased!” (Luke 2:14)

Jesus is our only Prince of Peace.



I love the Christmas season—the lights, hot chocolate, gift-giving,
family and other social gatherings that characterize the season. But
the portrayal of Christmas in popular culture may have created a
subconscious expectation—even among believers—that Christmas must
necessarily be merry and bright. It almost seems bad to be miserable
and unhappy, and as a result, we unwittingly make happiness itself an
idol. We want happiness more than we want Jesus; happiness is the God
that we worship.

However, that is not reality. Happiness in and of itself is not our
Savior. Without God, there is no happiness. True happiness comes with
knowing God Himself.

Suffering served as an eye-opener in my case. This tragedy helped me
recognize my need for Jesus the Messiah to save me from the mess I was
in.

In the quiet and loneliness of that Christmas night, with my wife
locked up in the mental health facility, God reminded me that though
things looked hopeless, happiness had not completely eluded me.
Despite all that was happening in my life, I had reason for joy
because of a baby in a manger. Like the angel said, ‘Fear not, for
behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the
people.’ (Luke 2:10)

Jesus is our only one true Joy.

Though I never wish to walk through that tragic experience again, I
learned precious lessons that I wouldn’t exchange for anything. As the
Prince of Preachers Charles Spurgeon said it well, “There is no
university for a Christian, like that of sorrow and trial.”

My wife today serves as the Children’s Director in my church and is a
wonderful godly mother of two. I am often humbled by her presence and
it has been our greatest joy to serve alongside as a pastor and staff.
She still struggles with anxiety occasionally, but nothing like what
had happened, thanks to Jesus.

If Christmas is a time that brings sorrow and painful memories of the
past, take heart that Christmas is also about the Creator of the
universe, King Jesus, humbling Himself and coming into the world to
save sinners. (1 Tim. 1:15) Jesus is the only one who offers joy,
provides peace, and extends hope to this broken world—and that’s why
Christmas is always worth celebrating no matter our situation.



*I wouldn’t share this experience if I did not have the permission
from my wife. We have both come a long way through His grace alone
that we are here to testify of His grace and for His glory.

