http://ymi.today/2016/08/really-what-is-success/

Really, what is Success?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Bungaran, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

“Success is my right,” the motivational speaker told the audience at a
seminar I was attending.

He paused for effect, giving us time to digest what he said. With all
his years of experience as a motivational speaker, I thought, surely
there was some truth to what he was saying. After all, he looked and
sounded pretty convincing. Perhaps success really is a right.

“You deserve to be successful,” the speaker continued. “You deserve to
live in luxury and wealth. You deserve to have the support of others
in all that you do and try to achieve. Now claim it. If you want the
newest BMW car, visualize it in your mind and claim it. Claim all the
things that you want!” The audience began to clap their hands
enthusiastically.

In a way, their response encapsulated how most of us view success. But
why do we get so excited about these things? Why do we desire so much
to be successful?

Many people will do whatever it takes to be—and look—successful. Some
women sell themselves to earn extra cash to keep up with the latest
fashion trends and styles. Some students cheat in their exams to do
well and in competitions to win them. Some businessmen bribe others in
order to strike deals. Some government officials allow corruption in
order to retain their luxurious lifestyles.

But who defines success? As Christians, who better to learn what
success truly is than from the most successful man who’d ever lived:
Jesus.

Jesus was born in a lowly manger and grew up in a small town in
Israel. He was trained as a carpenter and later, went around doing
ministry with a small group of disciples who were themselves lowly
members of society. And He ended up dying on the cross—a death meant
for criminals.

That definitely doesn’t look like success in our world today. In fact,
Jesus’ life would seem to be the total opposite. Yet we can say
without any qualms that He led a successful life. Why?

Jesus’ last words before He gave His spirit up was, “It is finished”
(John 19:30)—which also means it is “paid in full”. His death on the
cross fulfilled God’s redemptive work on earth by paying the price for
man’s sin and reconciling us with God. Jesus finished the work God had
given Him to do (John 17:4). In God’s eyes, therefore, Jesus was
successful, because He fulfilled the will of the Father.

What does this mean for us today? It is this: success is not about
having a luxurious life on earth. It might help us feel good about
ourselves, but ultimately, it doesn’t constitute real “success”.
Success is, in fact, following God’s will for our lives and living in
obedience to Him. Success is, in fact, following God’s will for our
lives and living in obedience to Him.

I learned what it means to follow God’s will and leading when I was
trying to set up my newly-bought knockdown wardrobe. Instead of
following the steps on the installation manual, I decided to try
assembling it myself. I managed to put it together—only to realize
that it was tilted towards the left. Frustrated at myself, I
unassembled everything and started from scratch—this time, according
to the manual’s instructions.

Deciding how to live is like assembling a wardrobe. We each have the
freedom to assemble life however we want—whether it is according to
our own knowledge or God’s. If we live our lives our way, we’d
probably end up with “crooked” lives. He will not be at the center of
our lives, where His power can be evident in what we do. However, if
we live according to God’s leading, we will be able to fulfil His will
for our lives, and find true success.

Success isn’t measured by the things we have or receive. It is
measured by our faithfulness and obedience to God, and in fulfilling
God’s plans in our lives.

Maybe the motivational speaker was right: success is achievable and we
can attain it if we set our minds to it. But may the success we dream
of be one of following God’s will and living a life of obedience to
His leading. We don’t need a luxurious life and all that wealth to
feel successful—we already are successful when we walk with Him and
choose His ways.

