https://ymi.today/2017/12/hang-on-should-christians-be-celebrating-
christmas/

Hang On, Should Christians be Celebrating Christmas?

Author: by Deborah Fox

I don’t know about you, but when it gets this close to Christmas, I
often look at the tinsel, the sparkling lights, and the crowded stores
and wonder if I should be engaging in all the hype. As followers of
Christ, should we be making a stand against the commercialization and
gluttony associated with our modern-day Christmas festivities?

An experience several years ago made me consider this question
seriously.

Then, I was so engrossed in my book to notice two sets of inquisitive
eyes staring at me, deeply concerned. I was at the hospital awaiting
test results and not at all expecting to engage in a deep theological
conversation.

The book I was reading was by John Piper, with the provocative title
Meditations of a Christian Hedonist. The book was not meant to
encourage debauchery or sinful thoughts. It was actually a reprint of
Piper’s bestseller Desiring God, which highlighted that “God is most
glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him”.

The two women sitting opposite me opened up about their faith and we
chatted extensively on the dangers of pursuing our own desires and
neglecting to do what pleases God. Our discussion quickly turned to
the celebration of birthdays, Christmas, and Easter. They had an issue
with how easily religious holidays lose their original meaning.

While I was able to agree with their reflections on how self-centered
and materialistic these holidays can become, one of their main issues
with celebrating Christmas was not so much the excessive food and
presents, but the object of the celebration.

I soon discovered that the women were from a Christian sect that
rejects the immortality of the soul and the Trinity of God as Father,
Son, and Holy Spirit. While they believed in the authority of the
Bible and the saving work of Jesus on the cross, they did not
recognize Jesus in the Godhead. As far as they were concerned, Jesus
was a special man, but not God incarnate. So they asked me: Why would
you celebrate the birth of a man who lived and died over 2000 years
ago?

Interestingly, their response helped me see exactly what was so
special about Christmas to us as believers. We don’t just celebrate
the birth of a mere man, we celebrate the fact that He, like no other
man, would live, die a physical death, and eventually conquer death.
Isn’t that worth celebrating?

Speaking of celebrating, Jesus Himself participated in Jewish
festivals and parties. His first public miracle was at a wedding feast
in Cana (John 2:1-12). Jesus also visited Matthew’s dinner party,
where sinners came to Him and had their lives transformed (Matthew
5:27-32). And in Revelation 19:6-9, we get an image of the great
marriage supper of the Lamb, where the entire Kingdom of God is
invited to participate in the festivities, joyfully worshipping the
Lord forever. If Jesus was able to enjoy celebrations with His friends
and family, how much more should we take joy and delight in
celebrating the great gift He is to us?

So, should Christians celebrate Christmas? It appears we can, as long
as we are pointing to the object of our faith: Christ. So, should
Christians celebrate Christmas? It appears we can, as long as we are
pointing to the object of our faith: Christ. I’ve been challenged this
Christmas season to take a step back and consider whether I have been
treasuring Christ? Am I placing Jesus at the center of my affections?
I have had to consider ways that I can actively celebrate Emmanuel—God
with us. I need to be sharing my faith and Christmas is an ideal time
for starting discussions about why Jesus is the greatest gift we can
ever receive.

This year, I have decided to invite friends to join me for the
Christmas Eve service at my church. I also plan to use conversations
over Christmas dinner to share the great hope and joy I have in
Christ. There are also various outreach programs that I can join in to
help share the hope we have in the birth of our Savior.

If “God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him”,
then we should be displaying our great joy in the Lord to those around
us.  We can celebrate Christmas by celebrating Christ.



Deb is thankful to be using her training in Media and Communications
to share inspiring stories of how God has transformed lives throughout
the world as a journalist and Communications specialist for Wycliffe
Bible Translators Australia. She also loves writing for YMI, using her
own imperfect story to help point others to the incredible love and
power of God. Outside of writing, Deb loves latin, ballroom, and swing
dancing. She is also a history nerd and a typical Melbourne hipster
with a coffee addiction, obsession with jazz music, art galleries, and
retro dresses.



