http://ymi.today/2015/04/what-does-it-mean-to-hope/

What Does It Mean to Hope?

Author: by Olivia Ow

Written By Olivia Ow, Singapore

I recently bought a pair of shoes online. Naturally, I waited in great
anticipation for the shoes to arrive—like kids do when anticipating
the arrival of Santa on Christmas Eve. (Okay, it’s just an analogy; I
don’t actually believe in Santa Claus.) Every morning, I would check
the delivery status and hope to receive the shoes that very day.

This “hope” isn’t unique, really. In life, we hope for many things.
Some are for noble things, such as for sick friends to be healed. Most
of the time, however, we hope for far more personal things, such as
better grades.

According to one author, the modern idea of hope is “to wish for, to
expect, but without certainty of the fulfillment; to desire very much,
but with no real assurance of getting your desire”. This definition
certainly came true for my shoe purchase: The seller turned out to be
bogus, and I didn’t get my shoes.

The experience taught me a more important lesson—that what we hope
for, should always be second to whom we hope in.

“Hope” in the Scriptures means “a strong and confident
expectation”—the certainty that what God has promised in His Word is
true, has occurred, and will come to pass in accordance with His Word.

Biblical hope is a hope that does not lead to an attitude of escapism,
but to the pursuit of life on a whole new dimension. It is never an
escape from reality or from problems; it doesn’t leave us idle,
drifting, or just rocking. Instead, it makes us optimistic about the
potential of our lives as stewards of God. It gives us power to live
courageously, to be all that God has called us to be in Christ.

If our hope is biblical—and not just a cliché we use “in case of
emergency”—it will put us in the right gear. We will be like William
Carey, an 18th-century cobbler who became one of the greatest
missionaries, who said, “Expect great things from God, attempt great
things for God.” Carey was not disappointed: Though his mission in
India counted only 700 converts in a nation of millions, he laid an
impressive foundation of Bible translation, education and social
reform that enabled many others to continue the work of evangelising
in India.

What do you hope for? That’s important.

Whom do you hope in? That’s fundamental.





Not a natural writer, Olivia struggles to find the right words to
express her thoughts. Normally, she would rather listen to what people
are saying than to expose her musings, so you’ll be surprised by her
keen observations about the world and the Word when she lets you into
her thinking. Because she is often wrestling within herself to live
out the Christian life, her writing contains an authenticity that
touches both the heart and mind.



