http://ymi.today/2017/11/5-things-i-dislike-but-im-thankful-for/

5 Things I Dislike But I’m Thankful For

Author: by Contributor

Written by Hilary Charlet, USA

If I asked you to name right now five things you are grateful for, I’m
sure you can rattle off more than that—family, friends, food, a home,
a car, a job, sunshine, snow, coffee, and so on. They’re likely things
that you care about, things that give you all the warm and fuzzy
feelings, and things that you feel you probably couldn’t live without.

This year, I’ve learned to be thankful for the things that don’t give
me these feelings—things that don’t go according to plan, things that
challenge me, and things that bring me to the realization that I am
not the author of my story.

The following five things typically cause us to feel down, defeated,
and wanting to give up. However, as I have learned through my own
experiences, it’s how we respond to these challenges that make all the
difference in our stories. Do we allow them to break us, or to shape
us into the person God wants to use in the world?



Maybe you’ve been applying to different jobs and keep getting the same
email over and over, which goes along the lines of, “Sorry but we are
pursuing other candidates that more closely match our needs.”

There was a time when I’d apply to anything and everything, just
because I felt that’s what I was supposed to be doing. I’d get
rejected, but didn’t really care because I didn’t really want the job
anyway.

After a period of doing this, I realized that wasn’t what God wanted
me to be doing. I saw that I was being impatient and trying to rush
His timing to find work. Philippians 4:19 was one of the verses that
kept popping up to assure me that I would be just fine. “And my God
shall supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ
Jesus.”

I didn’t need to stress. I just needed to seek His will and not be
afraid to step out in faith when the time came. I’ve since stopped
applying to every job opening and instead only to things I know I
would enjoy. I haven’t found the perfect job yet, but I can rest in
His promise that He has the perfect plan for me.

If you’re in a similar situation, remember that God is protecting you.
He isn’t going to let you settle for less than what He created for
you. This “no” that you’re getting now is simply just a bump in the
road that you’ve got to cross in order to reach the destination He has
in store for your life.



As we age, we become more certain of the type of person we want to
spend the rest of our lives with. We can be confident we’ve found “the
one”, only for everything to change drastically a few months later. We
have our hearts broken or sometimes do the heart breaking ourselves.
Regardless of who is to blame, the end of a relationship is usually a
painful one. It can leave us feeling unloved, broken, and sad.

When my last relationship ended out of nowhere, it hit me hard. I
didn’t understand it at the time, but what God showed me was that no
matter how heartbroken I felt, He was still there and He wasn’t going
anywhere. He wanted me to learn to recognize the true value of who I
am to Him—loved and treasured—and not base my worth on how another
person felt about me. He brought new friendships, new opportunities,
conversations, and songs into my days that eased the pain and helped
me see that right now, He’s the only relationship I need.

Instead of sulking in negative emotions, we can focus on the fact that
in one moment (that’s right, a single moment), we are loved by a God
who died to give us life, more than any other human being could love
us in a lifetime. Know that you are loved endlessly, regardless of the
hurt you feel.



We yearn for relationships, both romantic and platonic. We like to
have someone to talk to, someone to lean on. We have an ache in our
hearts that only God can fill, but we look elsewhere for satisfaction.
Some rush into a relationship that isn’t right for them because they
feel like they need someone, while others hook up with strangers
because they want to feel some love in some way, even if that means
they will be left feeling emptier than before.

Since my last relationship ended, there have been moments when I felt
very lonely seeing everyone around me in a relationship, getting
married, or having babies. It got me wondering when my turn would
come. Though it was tough, it gave me the opportunity to grow as an
individual.

It’s in the loneliest of times that I’ve become the happiest with who
I am; I began to see myself as how God does, to know that I’m precious
and I’m loved. I’ve taken spur-of-the-moment road trips, attended
Bible studies, spent lots of time in nature, read books about
relationships, and concentrated on growing my relationship with
Christ, my family, and friends.

So yes, while loneliness is not a fun thing to go through, it’s what
you make of it, and it can turn out to be the most enjoyable time of
your life. Spend your time doing things that you might not otherwise
do. Pick up a new hobby, spend time with your friends, volunteer,
travel.



Whether it’s the flu or something more serious, it’s scary when we
face any sort of health challenge. What if it turns into this? What if
that happens? What if I don’t get better? The list of questions,
fears, and scenarios we rack up in our heads can be unending and
overwhelming.

Last year, I was sick for a month and could barely leave the couch. I
didn’t realize how much I took health for granted until I could barely
eat, talk, or move around without feeling like I was going to pass
out. For days, the thermometer read 101 degrees Fahrenheit and my
tonsils were bigger than ever. I’d wake up with gunk in my throat, and
have no appetite. I broke down more than once because I felt like it
was never going to end.

Finally, the day came when the temperature broke and I started to feel
okay again. I haven’t forgotten how that felt, and now I try to live
each day with a grateful heart knowing that someday, I won’t be able
to do the things I can do now. A sickness or ageing or something else
unforeseen could easily take away the ability to do something I can do
now. So while I’m able, I will do what I can and be thankful for every
day that I’m able to move, jump, skip, eat, and so on.

When it comes to sicknesses, some of us will get better, but some will
not, and that can be difficult to accept. But let’s remember that
there’s a life coming where we won’t suffer anymore and there will be
no pain or tears or sicknesses. Whether healthy or ill, we have a hope
for a life that’s inconceivably better than this world we live in now.



The second semester of my junior year of college is one that has
stayed with me every day. It was the first time I experienced the loss
of people I’d loved dearly. First in February, then in March. One was
a man I called my grandpa; the other was a good friend that I’d gotten
to know from my nephew’s hockey team. He was only 17. Both were men of
God whose faith was evident in all that they said and did.

Though I felt sad, angry, and empty all at the same time, losing the
both of them challenged me to the core and taught me two things. One,
that life is precious and unpredictable—at any moment, anything and
everything could change. We aren’t promised tomorrow, neither are we
promised the next hour. Two, that what we do with our lives now can
make a difference. Their lives inspired me to want to know God more,
to live like Him, to love others like He did, and to be excited about
His plan for me and those around me.

Death is inevitable. We can use our time now wisely and look forward
to the life we’ll have together once we’re in heaven. I’m sure it’s
going to be one big party with Jesus, and it’s going to be good.

Next time you’re going through a rough patch, remember it’s only a
season, and seasons are ever-changing. Don’t let the season shake you
and leave you feeling defeated. Try changing your attitude about it,
how you react, and open your heart to being thankful for every
moment—good, bad, challenging, easy.

