http://ymi.today/2016/01/3-ways-to-stop-self-pity/

3 Ways To Stop Self Pity

Author: by Tracy Phua

I threw a pity party recently.

It all began a few days before Christmas, when my dad suffered a
stroke and had to be hospitalized. It was the festive season and
everyone else was in a joyous mood, so my family decided that in order
not to be a killjoy, we would break the news about my father’s
condition to the extended family only when Christmas was over.

Soon after, my pity party started. My questions to God came fast and
furious: Why did my dad have to suffer a stroke? Why did it have to
happen to my family? And why now, when I had made all these grand
plans for my annual leave? It felt even worse to scroll through my
Instagram and Facebook feeds—everyone was happy and celebrating.
Except me.

It was while I was sitting in the hospital ward looking at my dad, the
other patients and their families that God showed me how self-absorbed
and immature I was to harbor such thoughts. Shamefully, I turned to
God in prayer and asked Him to reveal to me how I could let go of this
self-pity which had almost consumed me.

God brought to my mind these three reminders.

1. Re-align my focus to Him It has been said, “When we focus on our
giants, we will stumble. But when we focus on God, our giants will
tumble.” Focusing on God helped me to rely on Him for comfort, peace,
guidance, and wisdom. It reminded me that He is sovereign over all
things, so I could trust that everything would happen in His time. As
a result, I was able to commit my dad and his recovery to God in
prayer, asking that His will be done in my dad’s life.

2. Care for the needs of others In my self-pity, I had forgotten to
consider my dad’s feelings and those of other family members. God
showed me that my dad needed encouragement and support. When his
friends and family heard about his condition, many of them came to
visit him immediately—despite it being Christmas Day. I could see that
he was truly touched by their concern and grateful that his Christmas
did not seem so bleak after all. It had been immature of me to focus
on my problems when my dad was the one who was admitted to the
hospital. Suddenly, what I had to go through seemed insignificant and
silly.

3. Find support in community In the first few days of my dad’s
hospitalization, I was constantly moping. When it got to a point where
I could not stand my own negativity any longer, I finally let go of my
self-pity and opened up to people close to me, sharing my feelings
with them. It proved to be a cathartic and humbling experience,
knowing that I had family and friends who were always ready to provide
a helping hand and a listening ear.

It’s been almost three weeks since my father suffered a stroke. On
hindsight, these three weeks have been filled with daily lessons on
obedience and compassion. My family and I have learned much about what
it means to trust in God’s perfect timing and to continually wait on
Him.

My father is doing much better now. Through daily physiotherapy
sessions, he is learning to walk again and has regained most of the
strength in his arms. He now finds joy in the little things, like
being able to type a text message and to eat on his own.

This season has taught me that self-pity is no less destructive than
other things like jealousy and lust—they all cause us to take our eyes
off God.

So, instead of throwing pity parties, let us turn to God and give
thanks for His unending mercies, bountiful provisions, and loving
faithfulness in our lives.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Life Hacks“



Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



