http://ymi.today/2017/02/how-a-hot-cup-of-cocoa-pointed-me-to-god/

How A Hot Cup of Cocoa Pointed Me to God

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jenna Kubiak , USA

The morning breeze mercilessly blew above the walls and enveloped any
brave soul standing in its path on a frigid, December morning at
dawn’s break. Woolen parkas, hats, sweatpants, mittens, and fur-lined
boots obscured our frail figures as my coworker McKenna and I kept our
eyes glued on the swimmers gliding through the water.

The frigid atmosphere instantly changed a few minutes later. Out of
the blue, a regular swimmer, Andrew, walked up to us with two cups
filled to the brim with hot, sweet, soul-satisfying cocoa—a gesture of
simple and pure generosity.

Surprised, we quickly thanked him for his kind gesture.

As a lifeguard, I’m used to being in the background. Every Tuesday and
Thursday morning or Saturday and Sunday afternoon, I set up my chair,
grab my rescue tube and waist pack, and supervise swimmers coming to
the pool for their morning laps or family weekend trip. The majority
of people don’t give me a second thought. I’m part of the scenery.

Andrew––a lean built gentleman of medium height in his 30s, with wire
rimmed glasses and fine-cut dark hair––always arrived on the dot at
6:30 a.m., every Tuesday and Thursday. I was stunned the first time
Andrew talked to me, because I had come to accept the idea that people
don’t notice lifeguards. He asked us how our day was, how difficult
our semesters were, and even remembered little details like our majors
and grades. He was genuinely interested in our lives, made us feel
like we mattered, and helped us understand that patrons valued our
presence.

This man’s generosity left a mark on both McKenna and me. Andrew could
have saved his hard-earned five or so dollars he spent on our drinks,
yet he chose bless us, without seeking anything in return for his
kindness. Through Andrew’s selfless act, we realized blessings aren’t
necessarily extravagant. And I believe that God can multiply one act
of generosity, and those who offer even small gifts will ultimately
grow richer than anyone concerned solely about themselves. I believe
that God can multiply one act of generosity, and those who offer even
small gifts will ultimately grow richer than anyone concerned solely
about themselves. Proverbs 11:24-25 best describes the value of
generosity: “One person gives freely, yet gains even more; another
withholds unduly, but comes to poverty.  A generous person will
prosper; whoever refreshes others will be refreshed.”

In a way, Andrew’s display of generosity gave me a glimpse of God’s
generosity. Just as Andrew had clearly went out of his way to bless my
friend and I and expected nothing in return, God shows us kindness
unconditionally.

God’s generosity towards humanity is best seen in the gift of the life
of His only son, Jesus Christ—the ultimate sacrifice that enabled
mankind to enjoy a relationship with our perfect, heavenly Father. 2
Corinthians 8:9 describes Jesus’ generous gift of grace, about how He
became poor so we could become rich in God’s kingdom.

And even when we turn away from God and try to accomplish things on
our own, He forgives all of our sins and constantly pours out mercy.
His everlasting love is so great that He accepts even the lowliest in
society into His eternal kingdom if they call Him their Savior.

I have personally seen God’s generosity manifest in my life through
the ways He constantly provides for all my needs. He gave me
additional scholarship money and ensured I had the finances to
continue studying at Biola University. He also provided numerous
opportunities for me to gain journalism experience and develop writing
abilities that enabled me to tell others’ stories and give a voice to
the voiceless. Furthermore, He blessed me with a great family and
friends who continued supporting me even when they were facing their
own struggles.

We do not deserve any of the wonderful blessings the Lord pours out,
yet He continues showering His love on us. Each time I recall the act
of generosity Andrew showed McKenna and me on that fateful December
day, I remember God’s generosity. This brief yet memorable moment
inspires me to intentionally bless others and look for ways to put
their needs before my own.  It is truly “more blessed to give than
receive” (Acts 20:35).

