http://ymi.today/2015/10/what-if-god-takes-away-my-gift/

What if God Takes Away My Gift?

Author: by Shawn Quah



I love writing poems. It’s my way of expressing my feelings, thoughts,
and frustrations. My very first poem was about a girl (as you may
already have guessed). She was someone I had admired from afar but
never dared to approach. Poetry gave me an outlet to pour out the
deepest feelings of my heart and soul, and helped me come to terms
with what I was going through.

Through the years, I have written many poems about different facets of
my life. I felt that God had blessed me with the gift of poetry. But
lately, I’ve been finding it difficult to write poems with ease, which
led me to wonder: Have I run out of inspiration? Or worse, am I losing
my gift?

That thought troubled me deeply. At times, I found myself trying to
come up with something as I listened to music—anything that I could
call poetry. But nothing came. I started to wonder what artists did to
prepare for grand performances and how writers of popular songs always
seemed to be able to come up with wonderful music. I also began to ask
myself questions like: How can I get more inspiration? What had
inspired me in the past?

The questions finally led me to bigger questions: Had writing poetry
become so important to me because it defined who I was? Did I feel I
needed to come up with more poems because people expected me to? When
did something that started as a way of expressing myself turn into
something that I needed to do, upkeep, and believe in?

Then the answer dawned upon me: in itself, poetry did not matter in
the grand scheme of things. Instead, what really mattered was how God
wanted me to use whatever He had given me at the present time for His
glory. Instead, what really mattered was how God wanted me to use
whatever He had given me at the present time for His glory. The
musician who started off as a performer, for example, may over time
feel that he wants to move into teaching others to appreciate music.
His roots in music are still there, but the way he manifests his gift
may evolve.

But what if the same musician loses a limb or his eyesight, and is no
longer able to perform or even teach? In times like these, we can only
rely wholly on our Almighty Lord and trust that He has a purpose and
that He will continue to work in our lives. Job is a good example.
When God allowed him to be stripped of everything he had, Job
recognized that all he had was from the Lord and refused to curse God
and die, even though his wife told him to. Instead, he came humbly
before God and proclaimed: “Naked I came from my mother’s womb, and
naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away;
blessed be the name of the Lord.”(Job 1:21)

In my case, I no longer write as much poetry as I used to. Instead, I
express myself in other ways, such as through writing articles, and
leading and mentoring others—things that I would never have imagined
doing 10 to 15 years ago. And while I do not know the future and where
the Lord will lead me, I say this with confidence: There is always a
purpose for everything, and in everything a purpose the Lord has made.

Empty of inspiration and thought, Head down as I pondered on this,
Eyes closed as I prayed to God, What have I not seen or missed?

Empty of all that I had in my gifts, I could not help but believe in
this, That whatever comes of my lot, I chose to walk believing in God.



Shawn is a laid back friendly person, who loves online gaming and the
opportunity it brings in meeting new people across the world. He loves
eating and though his favorite food is a well-kept secret, we have it
on good authority that it’s either Hor Fun or Char Kway Teow. He
enjoys writing poetry in his free time and hopes that the Lord will
continue to inspire him each and every day. Despite the fleeting and
uncertain nature of life, his fondest wish is to continue living it in
service to the family he has come to love dearly—God’s family.

Read more of his writings at his blog.



