http://ymi.today/2017/05/the-time-nothing-went-according-to-plan/

The Time Nothing Went According to Plan

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ana Chavarria, USA

“And we know that for those who love God all things work together for
good, for those who are called according to his purpose.”—Romans 8:28

This is a verse many Christians know by memory. I have known this
verse since I was a little girl but never took it seriously. I just
kept telling everyone that God had a purpose for everything. That was
my way of comforting anybody who was worried or stressed. But the
reality was they were empty words—I didn’t really live by them.

It was not until a month ago that I really understood that verse. “All
things work together for good” didn’t mean that everything was going
to be good. Some things that happen in life can be and will be bad.
But ultimately, everything (both bad and good) will work out according
to God’s purposes and for our good.

The day I learned that lesson started at 3 a.m.. My boyfriend Ramon
and I were going to Puerto Rico to visit his family; we were really
excited to escape the cold in USA and get some warm weather. We
reached the airport on time and were waiting to board the plane when
an announcement was made that the flight was delayed. After waiting
for three hours, we knew we would miss our connecting flight to Puerto
Rico.

Then it got worse. We were told that our flight was going to be
delayed even more—till the next day. Now, we were very upset. We had
been so focused on having things go a certain way that we didn’t know
how to handle the change.

We complained to the airline and its staff took 40 minutes to find us
another flight. This would arrive in Puerto Rico at 5 p.m., six hours
past the original slated time. By then, we were tired and hungry, and
just wanted to rest on a clean bed. So we decided to wait one more
hour to board the next plane instead of flying the next day.

The flight took almost four hours. Thirty minutes before landing in
Puerto Rico, Ramon suddenly told me that he felt pain on the left side
of his face. Initially, I thought it was just a temporary thing. But
the pain worsened and it reached a point where Ramon couldn’t even
talk.

Fortunately, the flight attendant was sitting right in front of us. I
quickly told her that we had an emergency. The crew made a call to the
ground support staff, so that they would have an ambulance ready to
take us to the nearest hospital when we landed.

As soon as we landed, I called Ramon’s parents and told them what had
happened. They immediately rushed down and waited with us for the
ambulance to arrive. My heart was racing, but I tried to remain calm
and answer the questions by the paramedics about Ramon’s condition. I
remember thinking to myself, “What a day! All is going wrong! Why did
he end up in the hospital? Why is this happening, God?” Deep down, I
knew that he was going to be fine, but I just wanted to hear it from
the doctors.

After five long hours of waiting, we had a diagnosis from the doctors.
Ramon had been sick for the last few days; he was doing better but was
still very congested from the cold, which had turned infectious.
Apparently, when we started to descend, the pressure in the airplane
was too much for him to handle; the infection had caused the severe
pain in his face. The doctors gave him some medicine and told us that
it was nothing serious. That night, we arrived home really late, at
almost 2 a.m.. I was exhausted but thankful and relieved that Ramon
was okay.

The next morning, Ramon and I slowly recounted the previous night’s
events over breakfast. We both realized that the pain on his face was
going to happen at some point because of his infection. But because
our flight got delayed, our seats were moved to the row right in front
of the flight attendant, where we could get help right away. If we had
been on our original flight, we would have been sitting in the very
last row and wouldn’t have had been able to get help so quickly. We
were amazed at how God had moved everything so that we could get help
on time. We thanked God and told our family how He had taken control
of every single detail.

Sure, it was a tough day. Nothing had gone according to plan. But I
can say with full confidence that ultimately, everything worked
together for good. Nothing had gone according to plan. But I can say
with full confidence that ultimately, everything worked together for
good.

There are going to be times in our lives when everything seems
perfect. But change happens; circumstances are going to shake us.
That’s when we need to tell ourselves, “Yes, it’s a bad situation and
it’s probably going to get worse. But it’s not the end.” God does not
forget us. He uses the bad moments to shape us to be more like Christ
and bring us to a place where we wouldn’t have been otherwise.

Through this experience, God put my faith to test, so that I could
learn to trust and believe that He has control over everything. Now if
something bad happens, I will immediately remember this moment—when
God showed me that He always has a purpose with everything that
happens.

So let’s trust Him wholeheartedly. He is a good Father in the midst of
our pain.

