https://ymi.today/2017/12/the-reminder-worth-repeating/

The Reminder Worth Repeating

Author: by Contributor

Written By Rachael Chong, Singapore

For most of us, hardly a day goes by in which we don’t flip through
our calendars—mental or physical—trying to call up a work meeting or a
dinner appointment. For those of us on Facebook, we receive prompts
every so often about our friends’ birthdays and important events.

We seem to be people who need reminders, live on reminders, and thrive
on a system of reminders. Because, let’s face it, we’re a forgetful
people. Without reminders, our lives pretty much fall apart.

Though I’ve seen and heard the gospel truth all my Christian life, it
occasionally falls on deaf ears, a cold heart, and clenched fists. But
one particularly gripping reminder from God really turned my life
around.

It came through a sermon at church, on Galatians 4. On that day, we
learned that from slaves, we have become sons of God and are known by
God. God is not a harsh taskmaster; He is our gracious and loving
Father who delights in who we are and whose love compels us to respond
in faith, love, and trust.

The God of the universe chose to set His affections on sinners like
me, and to adopt me as His own. It was not the first time I had heard
this truth; I have been a Christian for nearly my entire lifetime. But
in the past, it had slid off my back all too easily. For some reason,
hearing it there and then really drove home the glorious truth that my
identity has been sealed through Jesus’ redemption.

As a school teacher, so many things—and people—vie for my attention. I
am accountable to several parties: my Head of Department, my Co-
Curricular Activities In-charge, my students, and at times, their
parents. At times, I agonize over my poor showing at work, or get
bogged down by needless comparisons among my fellow teachers. I feel
disappointed with myself for not delivering a good lesson, failing to
discipline wayward behavior properly, or turning a blind eye to an
overworked colleague.

And so, to be confronted with the truth that I am God’s child and
prized possession brought immense comfort. Whatever I feel at the
moment in time does not change this firm and lasting truth. Whatever I
feel at the moment in time does not change this firm and lasting
truth. And if my worth is now secure, I am no longer judged by what I
do, or not do. So where I used to struggle with envy and malice when
my colleagues surpassed me in ability and merit, I can now learn to
celebrate others’ successes instead, knowing that my lack does not
diminish my worth, because my value is fixed in Christ.

The frailty of my memory makes me so prone to forgetting God’s love,
to wandering, and then to forsaking Him. But God has given an
abundance of reminders that are potentially life-changing. We receive
these reminders as we read the Bible, and also on Sundays when we
stand in the sanctuary and let the singing drown out the worries of
the week and the preacher’s words press on our hearts. Our Sunday
services remind us that we come as a body of Christ, rescued and
redeemed to give Him all worship and praise. That we come as a
community to encourage and spur one another towards love and good
works. That we come to gather around the communion table of mercy to
remember our Lord Jesus’ sacrifice that has reconciled us to our
Father.

I pray that such life-changing truths won’t just pass me by and fizzle
out with time, and that future reminders from God will continue to
change me from the inside out.

My prayer for myself and for all of us is that whenever we are renewed
by a message from the pulpit, or refreshed by a word of truth from a
Christian brother or sister, we will hold it not just as a friendly
reminder—as one from Facebook or our Google calendar—but also as an
awesome declaration of our priceless identity and His profound grace.
May every such “reminder” drive us to our knees, to worship at the
throne of grace.

