http://ymi.today/2017/10/martin-luther-and-so-he-died-as-he-lived/

Martin Luther: And So He Died As He Lived

Author: by Contributor

Written by Karen Pimpo, USA

“And so he died as he lived.” That’s how Martin Luther was eulogized
after his death on February 18, 1546, some 470 years ago.

When I saw that phrase written on the wall of Luthers Sterbehaus—the
museum honoring his last days—in Eisleben, Germany, it stopped me dead
in my tracks (okay, poor choice of words, but still). I was frozen in
the middle of the crowded Luther Museum as I turned that phrase over
and over in my mind: “And so he died as he lived.”

After a lifetime of religious activism and rigorous study, being
labeled a heretic by the church, devoting his waking hours to
translating and preaching, Martin Luther lay gasping on a bed in the
same town where he had been born 62 years earlier. And how did he die?
Offering final words of godly wisdom, surrounded by friends and
family, confessing his sins and committing his soul to Christ. Seems
like a good way to go.

Martin Luther was by no means a perfect man. But the legacy he left
his family, his church, and Christianity on a global scale, was
profound. He’s best known for starting the Protestant Reformation 500
years ago and recovering the doctrine of justification, which states
that a person is saved by God’s grace alone and not by any work of
man.

And he achieved the honor of leaving this world authentically—true to
himself and what he believed. Refusing to compromise or become
something he was not for the sake of appearances. Continuing to preach
and confess the same gospel on his death bed that he had followed his
entire career.

If you know anything about Luther, you probably know he was a monk
(more or less), a pastor, a hymn-writer, and a theologian. But he
didn’t just go to church to keep up appearances; he went because he
was truly invested.

Luther cared deeply about what he saw as a broken relationship between
pastors and congregations. He recognized that God’s Word—at that time
reserved for the learned scholars, theologians, and priests—was not
going out to the common people. So he spent eleven all-consuming
weeks, hidden away in the drafty Wartburg Castle with his life under
threat, painstakingly translating the Greek New Testament into a
language that the common people could understand. Luther’s concerns
about the church didn’t simply make him uncomfortable. Instead, they
moved him to action. Difficult, world-changing, and costly action.
Luther’s concerns about the church didn’t simply make him
uncomfortable. Instead, they moved him to action. Difficult, world-
changing, and costly action.

Martin Luther’s death in 1546 was not altogether unexpected; he had
been battling a multitude of health problems for some time. But
perhaps he thought he had many years of ministry left, more memories
to make with his wife and children, and more places to visit and
sights to enjoy. Regardless, he didn’t wait for those days to come. He
was on fire and determined to do the Lord’s work now, and we are still
feeling its impact 500 years later.

Would they say that about me someday? “And so Karen died as she
lived.”  I desperately want it to be true. I want to live and die
honorably, full of love, making a difference.

But I have my doubts. Perhaps they would say, She died as she
lived—full of regret. Crippled by anxieties and insecurities. Unable
to let go of the past. Afraid of the future. Because sometimes, that’s
how I live.

Like the apostle Paul in Romans 7, I have lots of good intentions to
live an authentic life for God. But there are things I abandon that I
should not, and things I hold on to that I should let go. Sometimes,
even as a redeemed child of God, I carry regrets and fears that cloud
my vision and paralyze my hands.

But that’s not how I want to be. I want to live and die in a way that
is consistent with my faith, authentic to who I am, unchanging over
time, just as Luther did.

The great thing about the Christian life is that we don’t do anything
on our own power—there is already One who has promised to see His good
work through to completion.

“Now may the God of peace make you holy in every way, and may your
whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless until our Lord Jesus
Christ comes again. God will make this happen, for He who calls you is
faithful.” (1 Thessalonians 5:23-24, NLT, emphasis added)

On the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, Luther reminds us to act
wisely, spend our hours shrewdly, and live authentically. To be
awakened to the God we serve, the world needs people who live like
Luther.



Lord, remind me how brief my time on earth will be.

Remind me that my days are numbered— how fleeting my life is.

You have made my life no longer than the width of my hand.

My entire lifetime is just a moment to you; at best, each of us is but
a breath.

We are merely moving shadows, and all our busy rushing ends in
nothing.

We heap up wealth, not knowing who will spend it.

And so, Lord, where do I put my hope?

My only hope is in you.

(Psalm 39:4-7, NLT)

