http://ymi.today/2015/07/when-it-is-frowned-upon-to-share-your-faith/

When It is Frowned Upon to Share Your Faith

Author: by Contributor

Written By Daniel Ang, Indonesia

One of my most vivid memories of college was my Sunday morning
routine. I would wake up at 7:00 a.m. to attend a rehearsal before the
early service at my local church, where I played the cello in the
ensemble. We were blessed with a good number of talented musicians and
an industrious musical director, who created beautiful arrangements of
classical tunes and traditional hymns for the service. The melodious
music, coupled with our pastor’s hard-hitting but inspiring sermons,
would always leave me with warm and fuzzy feelings when the service
finished. I would have my week’s fill of Christianity, so to speak.

However, the vibe and atmosphere would change dramatically when I
returned for breakfast in my college’s dining hall. There, the rest of
my hall mates would be just waking up. I would be greeted by the sight
of many in their pajamas, and some in their party clothes, still
hungover from the revelries of the previous night. Once, a friend
asked me why I was dressed up in my Sunday best. I replied that I had
just come from church. Her face broke into a frown. “Church? You go to
church?”

She looked bewildered—not hostile nor disapproving, just simply
puzzled. Apparently, at my college, “Sunday” wasn’t associated with
“church” anymore. I felt that I had just stepped out from the little
sacred bubble of my church into a world of the profane, where nobody
talked about the Bible, God, or the afterlife. I felt that I had just
stepped out from the little sacred bubble of my church into a world of
the profane, where nobody talked about the Bible, God, or the
afterlife.

That’s just the way it was at my former school: an elite liberal arts
college in northeastern America. There was no overt hostility against
religion, but it was a taboo topic. The predominant attitude was
“don’t ask, don’t tell”. The atmosphere was so stifling that a friend
even did a research project on it, interviewing people about their
experiences with personal faith there. One interviewee described the
time when he, unaware of the college’s social mores, committed the
grave error of sharing about his Catholic faith and the role it played
in his life. It was greeted with an awkward silence and embarrassed
expressions.

Looking back on my college days, I am reminded of Daniel of the Bible.
As a young man, he was forcefully taken away from his family and
people to the heart of Babylon, where he was educated in Babylonian
literature and culture so as to be useful in the king’s service
(Daniel 1). In the midst of this foreign environment, however, Daniel
was bold enough to maintain the faith and traditions that God had
commanded the Israelites to follow. He refused to eat the unclean
Babylonian food put before him, sticking instead to vegetables and
water. He continued to pray to God three times a day, despite an
official decree being made against it (Daniel 6:10). For this, he was
thrown into the lions’ den, but was delivered from death by God.

My own experience was not as intense as Daniel’s, but it has
similarities. Before going to college, I had spent most of my life in
a Christian environment: going to Christian schools and having friends
who mostly came from Christian families. In such an atmosphere, I was
reminded daily of God. But I also took it for granted. Everybody spoke
Christianese—regularly praising God and talking about His supposed
will in their lives. Being a Christian myself, it was easy to go along
with this. In fact, talking about God became an easy way to gain
approval from parents and teachers.

It was a totally different story at college. Even revealing that you
“went to church” was something odd. There were classes about religion,
but it would be frowned upon to talk about your personal experience
with religion. While few people attacked religion openly, most didn’t
bother about spiritual matters at all, caring only about material
concerns in their lives—a sort of pragmatic agnosticism.

At the same time, there was a thriving Christian fellowship. I
attended its meetings once in a while, and would be surprised to find
some of my friends—whom I did not know were Christians—there. Up to
that point, we would have talked a lot, but never about our faith. It
was almost as if we were all “closet Christians”.

I noticed that some Christians, when faced with this situation, ended
up hanging out with fellow Christians most of the time. While it was
understandable, I didn’t think that this was the best way to go. So I
tried making friends regardless of their beliefs, which led me to one
extremely memorable exchange in the dining hall.

I was having dinner one evening with a group of friends who were
fellow math and physics majors. We usually talked about the latest
insurmountable homework problem and topics in physics and science.
This time, however, the conversation somehow drifted to the topic of
God. Someone remarked, “Who believes in God nowadays?” He shook his
head.

So far, I had rarely talked about my faith, but I was determined that
if the occasion ever arose, I would not hide the fact that I was a
Christian. So far, I had rarely talked about my faith, but I was
determined that if the occasion ever arose, I would not hide the fact
that I was a Christian. I was inspired by Jesus’ words in Matthew:
“Whoever acknowledges me before others, I will also acknowledge before
my Father in heaven. But whoever disowns me before others, I will
disown before my Father in heaven” (Matthew 10:32-33).

So I piped up, “I believe in God. I’m a Christian.”

My friend was incredulous. “Really? But why? And how?”

I started to explain my beliefs. Being an avid reader of apologetics –
my favorite books were those by Christian philosophers and theologians
like William Lane Craig, Alistair McGrath, and Alvin Plantinga—I was
delighted to have this golden opportunity to put my knowledge to good
use, especially in a context where we were discussing science. I
explained and defended arguments about my theistic beliefs. My aim was
not to share the gospel, but to simply show them that there were, in
fact, “normal” students who earnestly believed in God.

I could see my agnostic friends’ incredulous reactions. They had known
me so far as a fairly competent fellow physics and mathematics
student, and did not see me as being one of those “weird religious
people”.

The conversation lasted way over an hour, and we had to stop only
because the dining hall was closing. It felt like a mini “lions’ den”
moment: I was the only Christian at the table, answering objections to
my arguments that were coming from multiple directions. While nobody
was completely convinced by my answers, no one was able to rebut me
conclusively, either. I felt that I was able to “give an answer to
everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have”
(1 Peter 3:15).

Eventually, we all went our separate ways. I still hope that my
friends will eventually find God, or at least be moved to think about
those questions a little bit more. But more significantly, that
conversation had momentarily broken the icy ocean of indifference at
college, and thankfully, God had granted me the courage to keep my
faith, even in public.

Looking back, I can see that small moments like these were
indispensable in strengthening my faith. In such an environment, every
small act I did that was even remotely “Christian” helped in reminding
me of my faith. Instead of being a routine act, every Sunday service
served as a genuine source of weekly spiritual renewal. Even little
things like not hiding the fact that I prayed before every meal in the
dining hall became significant to me.

In the end, this Daniel survived college, just as the biblical Daniel
survived Babylon. While there were times that I felt I should have
been even bolder about my faith, I believe that I handled my first
experience of being thrust into a secular environment well, and I pray
that God continues to give me strength to sustain my faith wherever He
places me in the future.

