http://ymi.today/2017/06/why-i-abandoned-my-bullet-journal/

Why I Abandoned My Bullet Journal

Author: by Contributor

Photo by Lynn Tran

Written By Sam Ly, Singapore

In recent years, bullet journaling has taken the world (or at least my
friends and me) by storm. The concept is simple. You use just one book
for everything—scheduling appointments, recording tasks, journaling,
drawing, you name it. There is a basic standard template to help you
get started, but you’re basically free to customize it according to
your own lifestyle.

If you’re wondering how the name came about, it’s because it involves
writing down everyday plans and events in the form of bulleted lists.

As someone who has a weekly scheduler along with seven other journals
for other things (expenses, dreams I remember, thoughts from quiet
time with God, etc.), the concept of bullet journaling was enticing.
Finally, I could combine everything into one!

That’s when I realized it wasn’t so simple in practice. Because bullet
journaling involves starting with an empty notebook, one needs to
create everything from scratch. Search “plan with me” on YouTube and
you will see the sheer amount of effort it takes to create each
month’s calendar and weekly spaces, which includes writing neatly and
drawing amazing illustrations.

As it turned out, I ended up spending a lot of time researching and
watching videos on how to create my bullet journal and spending money
on materials I “needed” for it. Instead of spending time to do the
things I wrote down, I was spending time decorating my bullet journal
and fussing over my messy lines and ugly attempts at hand-lettering.

That’s when it dawned on me: this was happening in my Christian life
too—I was letting the “good to haves” drown out what I really needed.
I was letting the “good to haves” drown out what I really needed.

There are a lot of things a “good Christian” is supposed to have,
which are present in my life. Perhaps you have them all too—cell
group, youth ministry, church on Sundays, prayer group in school,
volunteering at a para-church organization that reaches out to youth
etc. While these are all good things to help me grow in the knowledge
of God and relationship with other brothers and sisters-in-Christ, it
reached a point where I started to miss the big picture: God himself.

I knew something was wrong when I would tell myself I had no time to
sit down to read His word and pray because I was too busy preparing
for the next Bible study I had to teach, too busy trying to coordinate
and plan for my portion in ministry, too busy with “Christian things”.
How was it that I was too busy for the very God I told others to trust
and obey?

I realized the answer to this was simple: I had said “yes” to too many
things without realizing that I had limited time and energy. Instead
of guarding my time with God, I packed my schedule to the brim
thinking it would work out in the end because I was doing all these in
His name. As I struggled to fulfil all my commitments as well as my
responsibilities as a student, I began to drown in all the work I had
to do.

I know that the Lord can use difficult and trying times to reveal to
me that His grace is sufficient for me, for His power is made perfect
in weakness (2 Corinthians 12:9). I also know that the testing of our
faith through trials produces steadfastness (James 1:2-3). But I also
learned that I need to be discerning and wise in the way I manage my
time and energy.

God does not need us to embellish and pack our lives to the brim to
prove that we are His faithful servants. Friends, God loves us as His
children—our identities are secure in Christ alone, and we are much
more than ministry machines. When we abide in Him and He in us, we
will naturally bear fruit and so prove that we are His disciples (John
15:4-11).

I am still learning to be a wise steward of my time and energy. While
I remember to discharge the duties of my ministry (2 Timothy 4:5), I
must also remember to watch my life closely (1 Timothy 4:16). Instead
of embellishing my schedule with many good things that call for my
attention, I have peace in my heart to say no to some of these, if
they come at the expense of my own relationship with God.

