http://ymi.today/2017/03/im-an-extrovert-and-im-embarrassed-by-it/

I’m An Extrovert and I’m Embarrassed by It

Author: by Janel Breitenstein

Is anyone else out there guilty of subtly rigging your own personality
assessment?

You know what I’m talking about. It’s the exercise where you carefully
pencil in circles that should illuminate more of how you’re designed
as an individual.

I know, I know. It sounds kind of dumb when I say it out loud. In
fact, if you had asked me, I would have totally denied it. I would
have said, “I’m trying to make this thing express me accurately.”

It probably sounds immature (because it is) to mute certain aspects of
my personality. But I didn’t want to succumb to stereotypes. I wanted
to be more balanced. I didn’t want to, well, turn out like that person
who drove me batty once upon a time, or that person I didn’t respect.

To be more specific, I was embarrassed (and still am) by being
described as an extrovert; lacking attention to detail; and feeling
rather than thinking. I mean, who wants to be known as an irrational,
in-your-face, over-enthusiastic fountain of emotion who can’t match
her own socks?

Perhaps my embarrassment was aided by others’ response to my
unvarnished expression of personality in earlier years. Whenever I
spoke, out flew the product of a mouth in fast-forward and a brain in
rewind.

But though my extroversion got me putting on elaborate mild-mannered
disguises, God, of course, had His reasons. I distinctly remember an
epiphany I had while doing my third or fourth personality test some
years ago before we hauled our family to Africa for missions.

Shortly after I had carefully engineered every little gray circle with
my pencil, only to discover that I was still “incredibly
enthusiastic”, someone pointed out that nearly the whole African
continent thrived on talking and talking—and that flexibility was the
key to survival. A straightforward, uninhibited show of compassion
would also go a long way.

Wait. Did someone say it would be helpful to be friendly,
conversational, empathetic, and willing to be flexible on
details? Well, have I got a show for you!

Turns out that God’s knowledgeable design of me might not have been so
inconvenient or random after all. Perhaps in my longing to be someone
different, I was actually articulating a profound lack of faith.
Perhaps in my longing to be someone different, I was actually
articulating a profound lack of faith.

A couple of mornings ago, I was recalling Acts 13:22, which mentions a
particular king, musician, poet, dreamer, and creative planner. His
feelings got him into trouble, like mine do. But still, God says this
man “served the purpose of God in his own generation” and calls him a
man after his own heart. (I wonder if David ever had trouble matching
his socks.)

The reality is, I’m made in the image of God—whether I choose to
embrace His deliberate, carefully-considered crafting or not. Granted,
He’s not to blame for those times I overwhelm others with my
friendliness, fail to plan well for my family, or emote all over the
place without self-control.

My weaknesses aren’t an excuse to mute the way God has made me, but
rather to let His Holy Spirit make me fully . . . me (Ephesians
2:10). It’s much like my hope that as God transforms Africa, it won’t
become more Westernized, but more African, and take on the highest,
unadulterated form of this stunning culture in expressing His face and
image. God flourishes in the fullness of our distinction not so that
we can make more of ourselves, but more of Him.

I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made; your works
are wonderful, I know that full well. (Psalm 139:14)



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.



Janel is an author, freelance writer, and speaker. After five and a
half years in East Africa, her family of six has returned to Colorado,
where they continue to work on behalf of the poor with Engineering
Ministries International. Her first book, on spiritual life skills for
messy families (Zondervan), is planned to release March 2021. You can
find her having uncomfortable, important conversations at
JanelBreitenstein.com and on Instagram @janelbreit.



