http://ymi.today/2016/08/when-our-success-is-actually-failure/

When Our Success is Actually Failure

Author: by Contributor

Written By Maleakhi P. S., Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Everywhere I go, I see people around me striving after something. Some
study hard to get the grades they want, some work hard to get promoted
in their jobs, while others earn extra to buy nice cars and houses.
Although the end results are different, they’re all about the same
thing: everyone is pursuing something. Everyone wants success in one
form or another.

But why does everyone pursue success? What is true success? Is there a
way we can be guaranteed of it?

For a long time, I was not able to answer those questions—until I
chanced upon a quote one day that drew an interesting relationship
between success and failure. It read:

“Failure is any form of success that God doesn’t delight in.

I instantly saw the truth in that quote. There is only one way to
measure success—against God’s standard. But more often than not,
that’s not the case. Instead, we measure success in terms of what we
have physically achieved, not because God is pleased with us. We
rarely stop to ask, “Does God take delight in my success?”

Consider these scenarios: What if someone is able to afford a rich
lifestyle because his wealth is accrued through corrupt means? Or what
if someone is the CEO of a company because he attained his position by
sabotaging his competitor? Would we deem their lives as successful?

In the eyes of the world, perhaps, yes. But in God’s eyes, these
“successes” are actually failures.

When Saul failed

I was reminded of the account in 1 Samuel 15, where God commanded Saul
to attack the Amalekites and completely destroy all that belonged to
them, their people and animals alike (v. 3). Saul successfully
attacked them (v. 7), but instead of completely destroying everyone
and everything, he spared Agag, king of the Amalekites, and the best
of sheep and cattle, the fat calves and lambs. He kept everything that
seemed good (v. 8), blatantly disregarding God’s instructions.

To the rest of society, Saul may have appeared to be successful in his
conquest, but in God’s eyes, he had failed in his mission completely
because of his act of disobedience. Despite the great loot he had
taken and the number of Amalekites he had killed, God was terribly
disappointed with Saul. God said after that, “I regret that I have
made Saul king, because he has turned away from me and has not carried
out my instructions” (v.11).

Have I failed?

After reading what God said of Saul, I began reflecting on my own
life. If God could say such a hard-hitting statement to a king that He
had anointed, surely I was no exception. I couldn’t imagine how I’d
feel if God told me that He regretted making me a leader or giving me
certain talents.

Sure, we might have skilled hands, good looks, and self-confidence,
but if our emotions, thoughts, and actions are not pure, God does not
delight in us. Sometimes, we may even be like Saul: We may be doing
God’s work, but not in a manner that pleases Him. For example, I could
be leading the congregation in worship every Sunday confidently, but
my motives could be wrong. Others around may think that I’ve got it
all together and that I’m walking closely with God. But He is able to
see past my actions, right into my heart (1 Samuel 16:7).

True success, therefore, is achieved when what we do delights God.
Instead of asking ourselves how we can be successful in the world’s
eyes, we ought to ask ourselves how we can be successful in the eyes
of God. Even if the world doesn’t recognize what we do as success,
let’s strive to please and obey Him. Even if the world doesn’t
recognize what we do as success, let’s strive to please and obey Him.

God delights in us when we obey and heed Him, just as 1 Samuel 15:22
says, “Does the Lord delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as much
as in obeying the Lord? To obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed
is better than the fat of rams.” Outer appearances do not matter to
Him, but the heart does. Are we obeying Him today? Are our feelings,
thoughts, and actions pure before Him?

May this be our prayer today. May we strive for success—in the eyes of
God.

