http://ymi.today/2015/12/5-things-i-want-for-christmas/

5 things I Want for Christmas

Author: by Contributor

Written By Yosua Andreas, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Christmas is a special time of the year for many people. Whenever
December comes, I often hear my friends express their desires for this
season, such as:

“I hope the person I like will accept my proposal this Christmas.” “I
want to celebrate a special Christmas eve with my darling.” “I want
this Christmas to be an unforgettable experience.”

There is nothing wrong in hoping for good things to happen during
Christmas. But as I reflected on the true meaning of Christmas, I
realized that many of our desires are self-centered. So I decided to
rewrite my expectations this year.

1. I hope to focus my heart and mind on the birth of Jesus Christmas
celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ. As Christians, we all know this.
But the reality is that we sometimes get caught up in the celebrations
and lose sight of Jesus himself. It’s just like going to someone’s
birthday party and having a party on our own, forgetting that it’s all
about that person.

This year, I want to take time to remember the joyful news that
Christmas brings for the world: Today in the town of David a Savior
has been born to you; he is the Messiah, the Lord (Luke 2:11). I hope
to celebrate Christmas with my heart and mind focused on the Lord
Jesus.

2. I hope to share the true meaning of Christmas with those who do not
know it My pastor once shared his experience at a restaurant during
Christmas. All the waitresses were wearing Santa Claus costumes. So he
asked one of them, “Miss, do you know what Christmas is all about? Why
are all the staff here wearing Santa Claus costumes?” The waitress
looked puzzled and replied, “Christmas is about celebrating the birth
of Santa Claus, isn’t it?”

We may think that everyone knows that Christmas is about the birth of
Christ. But the reality is that there are many people around us who
have never attended church, much less even heard of Jesus. To them,
Christmas is synonymous with Santa Claus, Christmas trees, red-nose
reindeer, and snowmen. Everybody seems to be celebrating Christmas,
but how many people actually know its true meaning?

It is my hope that people will hear the story of the baby in the
manger who came to save His people, the magnificent heavenly host who
sang praises to God, and the special star that brought the Magi to
worship the King of the universe. This Christmas, I hope that I will
have the opportunity to share the hope I have in Jesus.

3. I hope to fill my Christmas with thanksgiving Christmas is usually
a time for people to exchange gifts. While this is a good tradition,
being too occupied with Christmas gifts can shift our focus from God.
A friend of mine proposed to his girlfriend on Christmas but was
rejected, and was very disappointed. Christmas then became a reminder
of the worst day in his life.

I do not want the beauty of Christmas to be determined by what others
give me during this season. Christmas is beautiful because it is the
day God gave us the best gift—himself. The coming of Christ is proof
of God’s great love for us. Who are we that God has come to save and
renew our lives? It is only when we remember that Christ is the One
who makes our lives meaningful, will our hearts overflow with
thanksgiving.

4. I hope to do things that please the Lord Christmas is seen as a
time to have fun, gather with family and friends, and do things we’ve
never done before. Many will party and even do unsavoury things. But
hey, everything’s okay as long as your heart is merry, right?

But . . . if Christmas is about Christ, shouldn’t we think about and
do things that are pleasing to Him, and not ourselves? Jesus came to
the world not just to save us from the penalty of sin, but also to do
things that please and glorify God.

5. I hope to grow more like Christ Celebrating the birth of Jesus year
by year does not mean that we will know and grow more in His likeness.
This is something I’ve been reflecting on this year. Have I grown to
love Him more? Have I grown in my eagerness to meditate on His Word
and put it into practice? Do my words and deeds reflect more of
Christ’s character?

Christmas greetings and gifts are meaningless if we do not have a
personal encounter with Christ and let our lives be transformed in
Him. So this year, I want it to be all about Jesus and less about me.

How about you? What do you hope for Christmas this year?

