http://ymi.today/2016/08/after-being-told-i-was-promoted-i-quit/

After Being Told I was Promoted . . . I Quit

Author: by Amy Ji

If the interviewers knew the type of student I was in school, they
would probably have rejected my application right away. I was
hyperactive, restless, and even “overly dramatic”—according to one
teacher’s description in my report card. Apparently, I talked too much
in one class, slept through another subject, and was highly
distracting on other occasions. In short, I was far from your model
student.

But I was confirmed—as a teacher. And the first thing I did upon
receiving confirmation for my first job was to sit down and write,
sign, and seal my resignation letter. (I’ll explain why later.)

To cut the long story short, what changed for me between then (as a
hyperactive teenager) and now (a manager of a leadership training
company) is that I became a follower of Christ. And a key part of my
transformation happened during my first internship.

During my university days, I joined a tiny company as an intern. They
were barely one year into the business and were highly welcoming
towards young, energetic undergraduates—like me—who could help with
filing, packing, and all the other menial tasks around the office. At
first, I found them a little too positive and encouraging. But I
understood when I found out later that all the owners were Christians.
Their vision was to reach out to young people across the country by
weaving biblical principles and parables into a tailor-made curriculum
which they brought into schools in the form of leadership, life
skills, or character development programmes.

Training and planning alongside them inspired me; I saw how daily work
and the gospel message could work hand in hand. Every trainer was
passionate, not just about teaching or the students’ welfare, but also
in communicating biblical truths. What caught my heart were the long
hours spent in the meeting room, reading the Word, and brainstorming,
with the aim of improving the content to better engage students of
different ages, learning abilities, and family backgrounds.

So, as I neared my university graduation, I decided to apply for a
full-time position in the company . . . only to be flatly rejected by
the directors. They shared with me openly that as the company was new,
things were not stable. They weren’t sure how things would pan out,
and didn’t want me to take a risk in joining them. They suggested I
considered teaching instead.

It took them some time to convince me, as I could not imagine how a
“bad” student like me could be a teacher. Eventually, it was a
statement made by one of the directors that set my mind on teaching:
“It takes a difficult student to truly understand and empathize with
the least interested student in a class, so go and teach as how you
would have liked to have been taught.”

I graduated from the teaching course with a distinction, and in my
second year of teaching, became Acting Level Head, and then Subject
Head in the following year. My department also won a nationwide
student engagement competition, then took third place in the global
version of the same competition. In my third year, I was invited to be
a part of the curriculum development team; in the next year, I joined
the strategic planning team (which comprises school leaders and
potential school leaders).

I guess you could say I was doing well in my career and was considered
an award-winning educator. On the personal level, teaching had become
a passion and joy, and my students had become a huge part of my life.
At the end of my fourth year of teaching, my principal offered me a
pay raise and a promotion.

And that’s when I handed in the resignation letter I had written
before my first day of work.

To many, I know my resignation appeared senseless; but I knew that it
was what I had to do. To many, I know my resignation appeared
senseless; but I knew that it was what I had to do. Right from the
start, I knew that I wanted to work for the company I had interned
with, and that my teaching years were simply a training ground and a
season of preparation for what God was leading me to.

At the time I quit my teaching job, that very company was still
small—there were only six full-time staff and about 40 regular
clients. Joining them would mean not only losing the promotion and pay
raise offered by the school, but also having to settle for half the
salary I was drawing. My friends and family tried to dissuade me from
resigning and said it was foolish to do so just as I was doing well in
my teaching career. One of my colleagues said I was “committing career
suicide”. Worse still, I had to deal with the pleas of my students
when they heard I was leaving.

But the heartbeat of the company—sharing the gospel and biblical
principles to students—kept my resolve. No other offer could take my
eyes away from my dream of working with it and being a part of the
work.

It’s been five years since I joined them, and I have not once
regretted my resignation. Scouring my Bible day after day for
curriculum ideas, teaching students about the importance of biblical
principles, and honing their God-given abilities, have proved to be
far more rewarding than a raise, promotion, or the affirmation of my
family and friends.

I’m also thankful that God has blessed me with the opportunity to
“teach” my former students when they join us as interns or part-
timers, to work with former colleagues who are now my clients, and to
find good friends in my directors.

And although the company is far from “successful” at this stage
(because the gospel has not yet been planted in every school and in
every student), I’m motivated to continue laboring on in the Lord.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



