http://ymi.today/2016/02/a-letter-to-my-future-wife/

A Letter To My Future Wife

Author: by Shawn Quah

Written By Shawn Quah, Singapore

Dear (Future) Wife,

It’s the day after our wedding, doesn’t it feel surreal? Watching you
walk down the aisle in your white gown yesterday, I couldn’t stop
thanking God for bringing you into my life.

When I was still on my own and feeling lonely, I prayed to God for
someone to fill my life with meaning. Oh, how wrong I was to pray for
that. Through a dear friend, God showed me that my prayers should
center on becoming the godly man that my future wife would want to be
with.

A long time passed before I noticed you. We were friends then, each
serving God in our own ways. When we became close, I was overjoyed and
I couldn’t help smiling (was I too obvious?).

God knew how much I needed someone like you, a person who was not just
my source of encouragement but also someone with whom I could share my
innermost thoughts and concerns. You were also great with my mum (I
knew without a doubt that she would like you!) and your acceptance of
my brother, who has special needs, touched me. The fact that you can
cook up a storm definitely helped score brownie points with my
relatives.

I must admit that you’re nothing like how I envisioned in my poems—in
fact, you are so much more. You are someone whom God knew would
challenge me to be all that I could be.

Through the months leading to our marriage, I had doubts about whether
we were compatible—we both know how different our personalities are.
Yet you never failed to remind me that this is a journey we are taking
together, and that ultimately, Jesus is the one who will see us
through it. That was how we managed to work out those arguments and
disagreements. That process also gave me a better insight into your
habits, quirks, concerns, and love for me. Sure, we had our difficult
moments, but I would never trade those precious lessons for anything
else.

You must have noticed how I choked up with emotions while saying my
vows (I saw your cheeky smile then). That’s because I couldn’t be
happier than I ever was in my life. I look forward to growing old with
you, warts and all. I look forward to every mess in the house (when we
have kids, hopefully), every laugh, every complaint, every tear, and
every tender word we share with each other.

It is my prayer that God guides me to know Him more each day, so that
I will be the husband who can lead you, love you, and cherish you the
way God intended.

Your (Future) Husband February 2016

Sentimental, as I see the leaves fall, Winds sweeping through fields I
stand on, In the distance, the noise seems so small, Right here, I
close my eyes and long, For that someone my heart belongs.

Fleeting, almost like a faded song, That familiar feeling I thought
gone, I slowly opened my eyes to the dawn, Trusting not in what my
heart longs, But where the Lord would have me belong.

EDITOR’S NOTE: What qualities do you want in your future spouse? Share
your thoughts in the comment section!

Click here to read A Letter To My Future Husband



Shawn is a laid back friendly person, who loves online gaming and the
opportunity it brings in meeting new people across the world. He loves
eating and though his favorite food is a well-kept secret, we have it
on good authority that it’s either Hor Fun or Char Kway Teow. He
enjoys writing poetry in his free time and hopes that the Lord will
continue to inspire him each and every day. Despite the fleeting and
uncertain nature of life, his fondest wish is to continue living it in
service to the family he has come to love dearly—God’s family.

Read more of his writings at his blog.



