http://ymi.today/2017/06/god-answered-my-prayers-with-2-potatoes/

God Answered My Prayers with 2 Potatoes

Author: by Contributor

Illustration by Lara Sim Written by Diana Yemima, Indonesia,
originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Prayer can be answered in many small ways. For me, it came in the form
of two precious potatoes.

I come from a relatively poor family. With my father’s meagre salary
as an administrative staff, we struggled to feed ourselves after
paying the utility bills. To help with the finances, my mother sold
snacks—plain sugar “doughnuts” made out of potatoes—around our
neighborhood.

Because of my mother’s weak constitution, she could not work every
day. So, for three days each week, she would sell her doughnuts by the
roadside. On the other days, she would do the household chores and
visit the market to buy the ingredients for the doughnuts. Selling
doughnuts only three days a week, my mother said, was her “strategy”
to keep the demand high.

The Lord blessed my mother’s business. Her customers would buy
plenty—some more than five doughnuts at a time. The doughnuts would
always be sold out by the end of the day, providing us enough money to
buy food for the family.

On one occasion, however, we didn’t have enough money to pay the
electricity bill as my father had used some of his income to pay off
some debts. Desperate, my father tried to take a loan, but he didn’t
succeed. To help, I decided to draw out all my savings. I was reminded
of Luke 3:14, where John instructed the soldiers to be content with
their pay. This verse reassured me that God would provide for all of
our needs.

I remember holding the money in my palm and praying: “Oh Father, you
know that this is all the money we have left and this money will be
used to pay the electricity bill. I leave this money in Your almighty
hands. With this money, we shall be able to afford all our needs until
the end of the month. In Jesus’ name I pray, amen.”

With my savings and the money meant to buy the ingredients for my
mother’s doughnuts, we just had enough money to pay the electricity
bill.

Then came Monday, the day my mother was supposed to make doughnuts for
sale the next day. Knowing that we had used up the money to pay off
the electricity bills, I asked my mum, “Are there no ingredients left
in the kitchen?” There were two potatoes, she replied, but she needed
two more to make the doughnuts. Not believing her, I rushed to the
dimly-lit kitchen to check. She was right—there were only two potatoes
left.

I knew that if my mother didn’t sell any doughnuts the next day, we
would not have enough money to buy food for the family. So I went to
my room and prayed: “God, thank You for blessing us so that we could
eventually pay the electricity bill without borrowing any money. But,
God, my mother has run out of potatoes to make doughnuts, even though
we need the money to buy our meals for tomorrow. Father, I believe
that You will never neglect Your children or let them starve. You will
have a solution to our problems. We leave everything in Your almighty
hands. In Jesus’ name I pray, Amen.”

After I had prayed, I left my room and saw my mother approaching me
with a big smile on her face. My father had found two more potatoes
hidden underneath the stairs! At first, my mother was worried that
those potatoes had rotted since they were left over from last week,
but surprisingly, they were still in good condition.

I was moved to tears when I saw God’s provision. I knew that the
potatoes were from God. I was moved to tears when I saw God’s
provision. I knew that the potatoes were from God. God had answered my
prayer with two potatoes. I realized that God’s help is never too
early or too late—it is always on time.

When we face a difficult situation and it seems like there is no way
out, God has the best solution for His children. My experience with
God was proof that He will always provide.

Since then, God’s promise in Luke 12:22-24 has always assured me
greatly. He promises to care for us, His children, and to provide for
our needs. The Lord Jesus told us that the ravens do not sow or reap
and still, God cares for them. So if God cares for even the ravens,
what more us, His children?

God will never renege on His promises, but we also need to do our
part. “Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you” (1 Peter
5:7). No matter how big our problems are, the Lord Jesus is always
walking alongside us, and He will even carry us when we feel weak. It
is only when we admit our weaknesses and humble ourselves in front of
Him, that we will feel His presence in our life.

No matter how unsolvable our problems might seem, do not give in to
the situation—give in to God.

