http://ymi.today/2017/03/what-peace-is-not/

What Peace Is Not

Author: by Contributor

Written By J Koon, Malaysia

I buried my head in my pillow. My tears had run dry over the past two
days of sobbing over a break-up. I had gone through the various stages
of heartbreak, denial, anger and finally acceptance. But I couldn’t
sleep. I tossed and turned, and cried out to God, “Why did this happen
when I have been faithful to you?”

After questioning God for about half an hour, I did not get an answer.
Instead, I felt an overwhelming sense of peace come over me as I
snuggled into the sheets. It was a peace that comforted and assured me
that God would never leave me and He would take care of my present and
future. I drifted off to sleep shortly after.

When we think of the word “peace”, we often imagine serene scenes of
nature. We think of quiet country roads below blue skies dotted with
fluffy white clouds, vast green fields stretching beyond the horizon,
and calm seas with seagulls and egrets flying overhead. We think of
resting our tired bodies on a soft, comfortable bed and dozing off to
unruffled, sweet dreams.

However, we know that life on this earth is not a placid existence. We
live in a tumultuous world with plenty of problems on both the macro
and micro scale. We face stormy seas and relentless monsoon rains in
our bustling cities; we’re constantly stuck in traffic jams or in the
unforgiving rat race. We face sickness, financial issues, emotional
problems, injustice, and wars.

Against this backdrop, it is difficult to imagine having peace and
hope. Who can we trust to grant us peace?

Isaiah 9:6 says: “For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and
the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be
called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of
Peace.”

God knows that we live in a troubled world. He gave us the Prince of
Peace—His Son, Jesus. Jesus Himself says: “Peace I leave with you; my
peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let
your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid.” (John 14:27)

The peace Jesus grants us is not just a subjective feeling of wellness
or the absence of trials; it is the confidence that we are right with
God because of His sacrifice on the cross for us. The peace Jesus
grants us is not just a subjective feeling of wellness or the absence
of trials; it is the confidence that we are right with God because of
His sacrifice on the cross for us. Even as we face momentary troubles
in life, we can rest assured because of the hope we have—that
everything will be made perfect in time.

Many years have passed since I have come to know Jesus, and He has
consistently been a faithful companion and constant comfort through
the ups and downs of life. Heartbreak, failures and disappointments
may come my way but I am confident that only God can provide, that He
cares, and that everything will eventually work out for good according
to His will.

If you are facing storms in your life today, may I encourage you to
surrender your problems to Christ and experience His amazing peace?

