http://ymi.today/2017/02/the-day-i-relooked-my-marriage-vows/

The Day I Relooked My Marriage Vows

Author: by Contributor

Written By Aliyah Lauren Jacobs, South Africa

They sit across from us at our dining room table, their fingers laced
together. She plays with her engagement ring, excited to be talking
about their big day and their upcoming plans. This young bride and her
adoring groom.

We see them often. As religious leaders, we teach young adults and my
husband is a marriage officiator. It’s a blessed privilege to see a
couple committing to one another and to the life to follow.

They often turn to us and ask us about our own marriage and the
connection we so evidently share, and we answer honestly, we weren’t
always this happy. It’s something I struggle with—how to tell them to
be prepared, for both the best and the worst.

My husband and I were both full of hope, commitment and love, on the
day of our wedding. We were innocent and somewhat unprepared for
marriage. My husband came into the marriage as a wounded soul—this was
something we were both unaware of. But when a church split happened in
our congregation where we were leaders, the pain of betrayal shattered
him.

Memories of past hurts from people he trusted in his younger years all
flooded back and neither of us was equipped to deal with betrayal from
the people we had trusted and shepherded. The roof and walls of our
marriage vows felt the weight first and the structure of our promises
began to crumble. My husband pushed everyone away, including me; it
was the only form of survival he knew.

During that chaotic time of isolation, I began to look at the vows we
had each written, differently. Ours are painted in watercolour and sit
in our lounge in a gold frame. Every night we see them, and when
visitors come in they are greeted first by the vows that lie sketched
between two candlesticks with the bride and groom on them. We had
promised not to put the ministry before one another, to tell each
other the truth, and to create a home of love, but I wondered how we
could still do that when we were falling apart.

One morning, I took the frame, grabbed a jar of anointing oil and
emptied the bottle over the glass. My sorrowful tears mixed with the
oil and together they slid across the glass. I cried out to God for
those vows, and to save my marriage. As the oil slid down, my eyes
caught the words we had written. I cried out to God for those vows,
and to save my marriage. As the oil slid down, my eyes caught the
words we had written. They weren’t unrealistic or abnormal, but what
we needed was somewhat different now.

We needed promises that reflected the gritty realities of life; we
needed to be willing to break open when we were hurting. We didn’t
just need to create a home of love, but we needed to create a
sanctuary for healing. We didn’t just need the promises for or about
the good things; we needed the promise of one another. We needed
accountability, and the hope that we were fighting together against
all the odds.

In that moment, I knew I did not need someone who promised a roof over
my head or money in the bank. I didn’t need him to always be my
comfort; I needed him to be real with his pain, instead of drawing
away to protect both him and myself. If he had promised that to me as
I stood in that white pants suit on that rainy day in August, he was
promising me the deepest part of himself. True, there were parts of
our marriage vows we had upheld but for the most part, we had had
little support and even less training for the hard times which came.

As I stood grasping that frame, I closed my eyes and heard God
whisper, “I am working hard on your behalf.” My heart stilled and I
felt a deep peace enter my soul.

And God did just that. He worked on us, in us and within our marriage.
My husband felt God’s love cleanse his soul from the broken
relationships of the past. Slowly, he was able to forgive, and receive
love from another. Not only did our souls receive redemption through
Jesus’ blood, but our marriage did also.

I turn to that couple at our dining table and counsel them to find the
strength to be real, to be messy. To still be holding hands way into
the grey-haired days with scars that tell a story of the fight.
Marriage is a fight, against the broken within and without. But good
fighters never give up, they never throw in the towel, and they keep
going for the sake of the cause. Sure, let’s find the words that come
only from our own heartbeats, but more importantly, let’s find words
that will hold weight when the hard times come.

