http://ymi.today/2017/03/should-we-give-help-but-not-receive-it/

Should We Give Help but Not Receive it?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Kim Cheung, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

During dinner some days ago, my father lamented about how times have
changed. It used to be that bosses care about their workers even
outside of work. When my grandfather worked at an architecture
company, his manager would always visit the family every Lunar New
Year, bringing some money along and asking if our family needed any
form of help.

There was one time our family needed help building a house, and the
manager sent some workers to help out. My grandfather initially
refused this help. My dad shared that people back then often thought
that accepting help would cause one to “lose face”.

I cannot help but think that nothing has changed today. Many people
are willing to help others but unwilling to accept help.

Most of us have been brought up to give selflessly. A willing heart
that gives selflessly, without expecting anything in return, is
exceedingly noble. I used to think like that.  When I was in school, I
would gladly help my classmates. However, it was very difficult for me
to ask for help from others. This persisted even after I graduated.
Many times, deep down inside me, I knew that I needed help. Yet I was
unwilling to ask for it. In fact, when others actively lent a helping
hand, I found it difficult to accept.

Should we encourage this behavior? Does God desire us to give help but
not receive it?

God teaches us that we should carry each other’s burdens (Galatians
6:2). The Bible also reminds us that in Christ, we are all members of
one body (1 Corinthians 12:12-27). Helping each other involves two
parties. If everyone refuses to accept help, who can we then help? How
can we then live as a body of Christ?



God wants us to joyfully give and joyfully receive. So why is it that
people find it so difficult to receive? If you ask me, the reason
behind this difficulty is pride. Yes, you read that right.

We are often unwilling to admit our own weaknesses, and we are afraid
that others may see them. In order to protect this fragile ego of
ours, we refuse to accept help. I realized this around three years ago
when I started thinking more deeply about the topic of giving and
receiving. Looking back, I realized that my pride was my Achilles’
heel and the underlying reason I was unwilling to seek or accept help.

Giving without receiving makes it difficult to trust in God. God wants
us to admit our utter brokenness so that we can completely cast our
burdens on Him and trust in Him. The Apostle Paul said, “Therefore I
will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses so that Christ’s
power may rest on me. That is why for Christ’s sake, I delight in
weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in
difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong.” (2 Corinthians
12:9-10) How can we surrender and trust in God fully if we deny help
and rely on ourselves completely? We cannot know God genuinely if we
do not admit our brokenness.

I remember one time when I showed up for a fellowship gathering
burdened with conflicted emotions. At the time, I was deeply fatigued
and though I could hardly bear it, I put up a strong façade. When it
was time to share, I planned on talking about minor things that did
not matter. However, an inner voice reminded me that I needed to come
before God in truth. Just like that, my defense was demolished. I
cried my heart out in the presence of fellow brothers and sisters in
Christ. I confessed that I needed help. I confessed that I was not the
least bit strong. I cried my heart out in the presence of fellow
brothers and sisters in Christ. I confessed that I needed help. I
confessed that I was not the least bit strong.

I am deeply thankful that God broke me, allowed me to see the dangers
of pride, and allowed me to be built up again in His truth through His
community of believers. Now, I often come before God in my helpless
state, crying for His help. I know that I have nothing. I can do
nothing. If not for God’s strength, every step I take would be
difficult.

I also seek help from fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. Whenever
I am feeling troubled by life, I not only ask them to pray for me, but
also seek their advice. The love and help my fellow brothers and
sisters in Christ have blessed me with has helped me to feel the
faithfulness of God. I also deeply feel the close connections I have
with other members of the body of Christ.



When I lay down my pride, I can finally be free of my struggles. When
I joyfully accept help, I experience brand new freedom. I admit that I
have weaknesses and I am inadequate. It is only when I completely
surrender that God can have full control over my life. When I obey His
will, God can demonstrate His strength in my weakness.

Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, God wants you to have this
freedom as well. Are you willing to lay down your pride that God may
take control of your life?

