http://ymi.today/2016/10/it-wasnt-just-excessive-spending-it-was-more/

It wasn’t just excessive spending, it was more.

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jacelyn Chia, Singapore

Ask any good Christian where their comfort comes from and their answer
would be Christ. My source of comfort starts with C too, but I’m
afraid it’s something else: Clothes.

It started when my peers started buying clothes online, and I was
curious to try it out. I soon got hooked. Whenever I felt bored or
stressed, I would scroll through websites like Zalora, Lazada, Ezbuy
etc. almost instinctively, send images of what looked good to my
friends for approval, then click on the “Add to cart” button.

When I was particularly stressed or frustrated, I would purchase items
that caught my eye. I was just 16 years old then. Not being rich nor
having my parents fund my shopping sprees, I would skimp on my meals
in order to save enough money to go shopping. I also stopped tithing
so that I could use the money for online shopping. Soon, I stopped
going to church altogether, as I felt like a hypocrite—although my
lips praised God, my heart was far away from Him.

I didn’t think that my spending habits were reflecting deeper
underlying issues in me, and believed that it was common for teenagers
to be obsessed with online shopping. It was only when some of the
friends whom I sent screenshots of my purchases to started making
comments like, “Eh, don’t shop so much lah”, that I started to
evaluate my spending habits.

That’s when I noticed how guilty I would feel about my purchases: I
would cut off the price tags to remove any evidence that they had just
been bought. I kept my purchases in my bag before entering my house so
that my parents would not question me about them. And I was aghast to
realize that I did not even wear some of the new clothes I bought.

One day, I decided to start adding up my expenses. I got to just three
items before I started cringing. Ashamed, I now realized that I had a
real problem with excessive spending. And I knew I had to do something
about it. I googled for tips on how to curb my spending habit,
surrendered my credit and debit cards to my mother, and started to go
out of the house without bringing any money. The first time I left the
house penniless, I felt most anxious. I found myself evaluating the
clothes of people I saw and thinking about whether or not to buy them.

I confided in a friend, who told me to think about the root causes of
my habit of impulsive and excessive shopping. That’s when I came up
with this list:

With this list in mind, I then decided to try to find replacement
behaviours that would meet the needs I had listed above (advice found
on Google). I decided to paint, draw, sleep, and finally—start
attending church again.

I went back to church the following Sunday. My Sunday school class was
studying Romans 7, and Romans 7:4-8 struck me, as it mentioned the
freedom Christians have from sin. I had been feeling like I was stuck
and could never quit this shopping habit, but the verses reminded me
that with God’s help, I could be set free from sin—in this case,
excessive shopping, which hindered me from things like quiet time with
God and fellowship with believers.

Slowly, I started to realize that all the needs that I was trying to
meet through shopping could only be fully met by God. I decided that I
wanted to change, as I did not want to be stuck in the vicious cycle
of spending.

The Bible provided the solutions to all the needs I had; this time, I
did not have to Google for solutions to my problem.

1. I seek acceptance and approval from others through my possessions.
God accepts us as we are because Jesus died for us. (Colossians
1:21-22)

2. The thrill of shopping removes negative feelings I experience,
albeit temporarily. God grants us the peace that the world can never
give. (John 14:27)

3. The ability to buy makes me feel powerful as I am able to make a
decision or choice to (be in control). No matter how much I try to be
in control of things, God’s plan will always prevail. (Proverbs 19:21)

4. I believe that my purchases will make me happy. Remembering God’s
faithfulness to me can bring me greater joy. (Psalm 92:4-5)

5. I believe that clothes make me look good I am a child of God, and
that is independent of my appearance. (John 1:12)

Please pray for me as I am just beginning my journey of quitting my
shopping addiction. Let’s be careful not to use any hobby or activity
to meet our emotional and spiritual needs, as they will definitely
fail. Only God can fulfill our greatest needs.

