http://ymi.today/2017/11/who-would-give-this-bride-away/

Who Would Give This Bride Away?

Author: by Amy Ji

It was the night of our first planning meeting for our wedding. All of
us involved in the preparation were all buzzing with ideas and
enthusiasm, right until the pastor turned to me and asked, “Who would
be walking you down the aisle?” All the brainstorming gave way to a
deafening silence.

Who was going to walk me down the aisle? I had no ready answer.

My parents separated when I was four. After a few scheduled monthly
meetings and increasingly awkward yearly holidays, I saw my dad less
and less. It came to a point when I stopped missing him altogether,
and it did not matter whether I saw him or not. Before the pastor had
asked that question, it had not occurred to me that I had not forgiven
my dad all these years.

Memories are funny things; they seem to have a life of their own.
Whenever people ask about my dad, I have difficulty recounting shared
experiences. I even had to ask my mum what she knew of the time I had
with my dad.

Ironically, she had an endless string of wonderful things to share,
complete with photo albums filled with evidence—the twice-yearly beach
holidays when we had picnics and built sandcastles, the season when we
did cycling trips, and that one family holiday to Disneyland. It was
as if my mind had an in-built defense mechanism that had caused me to
somehow forget the entire divorce proceedings—along with all the good
memories of my dad.

Despite the years of what might be termed estrangement, my then-fiancé
thought it would be best to let my dad do the honors anyhow. “It might
help the relationship”, he said optimistically. He had no idea how
difficult it would be for me to even initiate that first meet-up, much
less broach the request. Nevertheless, I decided to give it a go,
choosing to meet at lunch because that would limit my time with dad
and any awkwardness that could ensue.

Unfortunately, it did not turn out better than expected. Meeting a
distant parent is not quite the same as meeting a long-lost friend.
Instead of sentimental hugs to exchange and juicy gossip to share, it
was formal and distant, no different from meeting one of my primary
school teachers. He quizzed me about how I did in school, asked about
what I did for work, and finally asked about the family. Lunch was
full of niceties and roundabout conversations, with me not being able
to broach the subject.

That night, I could not sleep. As I reflected on the way our
conversation played out, it became obvious to me that I was still
bitter towards my father. Years of respectful and courteous meetings
had merely built walls between my dad and me. After two decades, these
walls had unknowingly become an impenetrable fortress. The reason I
did not want him to have a share in the joys of my wedding day was
that I continued to harbor hatred in my heart towards him. I felt
abandoned and unloved.

Ironically, my Bible reading plan that week led me to Luke 15, that
familiar series of “lost” parables. The parable of the lost coin, the
lost sheep, and the lost son. It felt like a mockery of sorts reading
about the prodigal son who left his loving father after cursing him to
death (which he effectively did by asking for his inheritance) because
in each of the stories, the lost one was found; but in my case, I was
“thrown away”. The voice in my head screamed, “It’s the father who’s
the prodigal in my story—not his innocent children!” But as I read the
chapter again, the full weight and meaning of the word “found” hit me.

In a bid to find me, my loving heavenly Father had to do much more
than what the father of the prodigal son and the woman looking for her
coin did. He had to allow his precious Son to come to earth, to live
as a man, and to die for my sins. If He had not abandoned His son that
day on the cross, if He had kept the Lord Jesus in heaven, there would
have been no way I could become a child of God. He gave up His most
beloved possession in exchange for sinful, flippant, and selfish
people like me.

My realization of the Father’s love for me, shown through His
abandoning of Jesus, His Son, overwhelmed me. My realization of the
Father’s love for me, shown through His abandoning of Jesus, His Son,
overwhelmed me. You can still see the tear stains on the pages of my
journal where I wrote, “How can I, a mere sinner, loved and found by
the Most High God, harbor any hatred or bitterness in my heart? The
sheer love of God fills my heart to the brim and overflows. With the
power of the Holy Spirit living in me, I release the hurt, the anger,
and the pain to make way for His love which has found me once again,
even now.”

A week later, I met my dad again. This time, it was at his house and
on a weekend. This time, there was no escaping or skirting around the
issue. To my surprise, he was touched and grateful that I would let
him do the honors. What’s more, he even offered to get a suit for the
occasion and participate in the rehearsal at the church. That being
said, forgiveness did not come completely or miraculously in a single
instant. But it was certainly the start of the journey towards
reconciliation.

On our wedding day, now four years ago, my father took my arm in his
and walked me down the long aisle. To give me away to a man whom God
had prepared years before, a man who promised to love and never
forsake me, as long and until I am prepared to be received into the
arms of my Heavenly Father.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



