http://ymi.today/2016/04/3-life-hacks-from-moses-life/

3 Life Hacks from Moses’ Life

Author: by Contributor

Written By Immanuel Oh, Singapore

Have you ever been asked to do something you didn’t want to do? Was it
because you were afraid and felt it was beyond your capabilities, or
because there were too many restrictions?

Now, let’s say you decided to take up the responsibility. You put all
your effort into doing it well, but made one wrong move just when you
were about to finish, and lost a chance to enjoy the reward. But
here’s the catch: you still have to complete the job. How would you
feel?

The above scenario could very well be the summary of Moses’ life after
God chose him to lead the Israelites out of Egypt to the Promised
Land. I recently attended a Bible study on the life of Moses and
learned three “life hacks” from him:

The first 40 years of Moses’ life was spent in the comfort and luxury
of the palace. But his princely life came to an end when he killed an
Egyptian. Forced to flee, Moses settled in a foreign place for the
next 40 years before he was called by God to lead the Israelites out
of Egypt.

At the age of 80, Moses must have felt incapable of taking on such a
great task. He said, “Who am I, that I should go to the Pharaoh and
bring the Israelites out of Egypt?” (Exodus 3:11). But God promised to
be with him (Exodus 3:12), revealed himself to Moses (Exodus 3:14),
and equipped Moses with signs to show the Israelites that God was with
him (Exodus 4:1-12).

There have been times when I felt insufficiently competent to take on
a task or role for a ministry in church. The first time I was
approached, I turned it down without putting much thought into it or
even praying about it. But subsequently, God led me to pray and serve
alongside others. Through courses and training, He equipped me with
the necessary skills and knowledge.

God knows what is best for us and will prepare us well before we face
the task ahead. Will we let go of our insecurities and let God work
wonders through us?

Even though God specifically commanded Moses to speak to a rock for
water (Numbers 20:7-12), Moses struck the rock twice instead. Why did
this man of God—who had served Him so faithfully for many years—commit
such an unwise act just before entering Canaan?

We may think that God was rather harsh to disqualify Moses from
entering the Promised Land over this small mistake. After all, didn’t
Moses strike the rock many years ago and water flowed out from it
(Exodus 17:5-6)? It wasn’t the nature of the act that God was
concerned with, however, but the intent behind it. God demands full
obedience from us, regardless of how simple His instruction may seem.

Moses, through his action and response, not only showed disobedience,
but possibly also arrogance. His words—“Listen, you rebels, must we
bring you water out of this rock?” (Numbers 20:10)—seem to suggest
that he was taking credit for the miracle.

I’ve been equally guilty of doing the same thing. Although I know very
well what He demands of me, I sometimes do things my own way—or should
I say, against His way because I think I know better. In the face of
difficulties, we may try to figure out problems on our own instead of
waiting or trusting in God to pull us through. But our plans are
nothing without Him.

God has called us as His chosen people to honor Him and serve Him. We
are to trust Him wholeheartedly and to follow His every command—not
just the easy ones.

What encourages me most is Moses’ commitment to serve God to the end
of his life. Even when he knew there was no more physical reward—he
would not be able to enter Canaan because of his disobedience—Moses
chose to complete the task God had given him.

It can be hard to do something without gain or reward, especially when
you’re “sacrificing” your time and effort to do so. When I placed
myself in Moses’ position, I wondered how he could carry on serving
and helping the Israelites after all the trouble they caused him. But
as I delved deeper into Moses’ life, I realized that Moses could
because he was serving God.

Moses’ faithfulness challenges me to focus not just on earthly rewards
and satisfaction, but on the glory of God. The motivation for us to
serve God should be to glorify Him, to love Him and His people.

