http://ymi.today/2016/04/when-did-you-last-try-to-fix-yourself/

When Did You Last Try to “Fix” Yourself?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Eudora Chuah, Singapore

It’s a bad day at work. One of the kids is acting up again. This time,
he’s putting his legs up onto his chair. Regardless of how many times
I tell him to put them down, he refuses. Each time I repeat myself, it
sounds like I’m nagging.

“Put your feet down, NOW!” I finally yell in frustration. My anger
rubs off on him. “You’re just yelling at me because you have a mental
problem!” he retorts. He’s close to tears.

Aghast at his rudeness and hurt, but not wanting to draw further
attention to the situation, I make a mental note to relay this
incident to his parents. I’m not inclined to let him off because of
his age—since when was it acceptable to address others
disrespectfully, and to use such labels?

Hurt and anger soon morph into frustration and shame. Unaccustomed to
these feelings, I decide that they should be quickly fixed.
Instinctively, “Eudora’s Dummies’ Guide to Handling Bad Feelings”
kicks into gear.

I fiddle on my phone aimlessly, trying to push my emotions away. But
the frustration and hurt don’t fade away. That’s okay. I can text a
friend. Maybe we can meet for dinner. Good food and company should
ease these nasty feelings. My friend agrees to meet. See, I tell
myself, this works already. “Eudora’s Dummies’ Guide to Handling Bad
Feelings” is fool proof!

Next step in the Dummies’ Guide: I walk into a Marks & Spencer store,
where the shelves of snacks immediately catch my eye. Buying these
chips might help. A pack of biscuits might do the trick, too! Comfort
food is always useful in such situations.

While paying for my purchases, my mind drifts back to a previous
episode where I had attempted to comfort myself in a similar manner.
Then, I had walked into Candy Empire and bought two chocolate bars
which I had taken a long time to finish, because I felt too
undeserving of them as soon as I paid for them.

On other occasions, I’ve attempted to “fix” my feelings by seeking
assurance from my friends. Was what I said really okay? Did I sound
stupid in front of the audience? On days when I feel even more
insecure, I’ve even questioned my friendships. Are we still friends?
Really? Why would anyone want to befriend someone like me?

Often, I feel like I’m trying to crack a code. If only I did this or
that, perhaps in a certain sequence or after a required number of
times, that may have helped to erase those bad feelings and make me
feel better.

Yet, for the most part, I know that these fix-it methods don’t
actually solve the real problem at the end of the day. Each time I buy
snacks, I feel better—momentarily. But these material things never
truly fill my emotional black hole and on the contrary, I end up
feeling a double dose of shame. But these material things never truly
fill my emotional black hole and on the contrary, I end up feeling a
double dose of shame. And even when my friends reassure me that our
friendship is unchanging, I often find myself skeptical. I wonder if
my friends are just sugar-coating what they really think of me.

But God has worked constantly in my life through my church community.
Each time I find myself in a self-deprecating episode and tempted to
resort to one of my fix-it remedies, they remind me that Jesus loves
me just as I am. They identify when I’m being self-dependent, yet
gently encourage me to fix my eyes on the gospel. Jesus has already
taken our shame upon Himself by dying on the cross, and all of us can
be “fixed” when we put our trust in Him. In doing so, we are accepted,
made righteous and loved by Him (Hebrews 12:2), even in the midst of
our messiness.

The learning process has been slow, often humbling, and sometimes
painful. More often than not, I find myself failing and slipping back
into my “fix-it” behaviours. Yet I am thankful that God is patient
with me, and has also graciously given me a loving community that
mirrors His patience and love.

So why are we trying so hard to “fix” ourselves? We don’t need
to—Jesus’ death on the cross has already accomplished that for us.

