http://ymi.today/2016/10/im-no-superwoman-and-its-perfectly-okay/

I’m No Superwoman and It’s Perfectly Okay

Author: by Charmain Sim

In English novelist Jane Austen’s classic, Pride and Prejudice, there
is a particular discussion on the attributes of an “accomplished
woman”. These are “a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing,
dancing and the modern languages”, as well as polished manners and an
appetite for reading. Elizabeth Bennet, the protagonist, dismisses the
entire notion as impossible to achieve.

Even back then, Austen knew that the idea of an ideal woman was
unrealistic. You would think that such an idea would have disappeared
with the times. However, though the idea has evolved, it still exists
today. Today, women are pressured to be, among other things:

Deep down, we know that this idea of a “superwoman” is unrealistic,
yet we are still taken up with it. At least I am. Thinking that I can
do it all, I have often found myself overcommitted with projects, from
event planning to serving in church to exercise to studies. I would
stretch myself thin, only to collapse in despair and exhaustion,
brought down by either my failure or the sense that there’s always
more to be done.

This struggle to be a quintessential multitasker was evident recently,
when I had to care for my four-year-old brother. I honestly enjoyed
the good sibling time we had together, but I felt listless at the end
of the day. While my peers were out sealing deals, submitting press
releases and finalizing consultancy reports, I had spent the day
playing with my brother and making sure he finished his meals. I felt
unaccomplished.

I often feel this way—as if I have not yet done enough. But along the
way I’ve learned a few lessons on how I can choose to respond to that
perception.

I have to acknowledge that I’m no superhero. There are only 24 hours
in a day, and I can’t be a cook and a seamstress and an administrator
all at once. I’ve often had to swallow my pride and admit my limits. I
have to admit that I’m just not God.

There was one time when I was in tears because I was behind on
household chores, and my husband had to gently reassure me that his
love for me was not determined by how brightly the floor gleamed. In
that moment, I saw a little bit more of how God loves us too. We are
not defined by our accomplishments, nor is our worth measured by our
strengths and weaknesses. Rather, everything we have is by grace, and
all we are able to do is because God enables us (2 Corinthians 12:9).

The chief lesson I’ve learned is that our lives are defined not by one
big moment, but rather by the sum of many small ones. Hence, what is
actually required of us is faithfulness―faithfulness to God and
faithfulness in loving others. And this faithfulness is played out in
our day-by-day lives.

Proverbs 31 describes a noble woman who seems to be the superwoman. I
used to be both awed and terrified by her. But in reading the chapter
again, I noticed that the verses actually talk about everyday, mundane
tasks―cooking, farming, crafting. The Proverbs 31 woman did not claim
superwoman-hood. All she did was to be faithful with whatever was
given to her daily. That commitment was what her husband and children
praised her for—”Many women do noble things, but you surpass them all”
(Proverbs 31:29).

It’s not just about nailing that important presentation. It’s also
about whether I treat my fellow teammates with respect and care while
we work together. It’s not just about having a grand wedding. It’s
also about whether I continue to love and serve my husband every day
after. Do I choose God every morning, and not only on Sundays?

Understanding faithfulness has given me new insight into what it means
to be an accomplished woman in God’s eyes. And it is much more
achievable than the demands we impose on ourselves. I do still aspire
to be a good wife, daughter, homemaker, volunteer, and worker. But now
I choose to admit my limitations, humbly receive the grace of the
Lord, and commit to be faithful with whatever I have and can give in
the 24 hours given―even if it means that the only thing I accomplish
today is to care for my brother.



Charmain has a thing for chocolate, Jane Austen, and extraordinary
stories of ordinary people. A wife and mother of two, she is
uncovering what it means to live as loved, with eyes for eternity. She
writes because it helps her process experiences, and loves being
surprised by God—especially in the little but meaningful moments He
plants into her everyday.



