http://ymi.today/2016/01/do-you-know-who-you-really-are/

Do You Know Who You Really Are?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Lai, Singapore

Are you an ENTP*? What are your top strengths? What does your sleeping
position say about you? Did you know that your favorite color says
something about who you are?

We cannot avoid the slew of articles and advertisements that bombard
us every day, emphasizing the importance of finding out exactly who we
are, or social media, which constantly prompts us to post every photo
and thought to “express” our identity.

So how do we go about finding our true selves?

Sometimes we rely on personality tests to understand our own character
and how it functions, or go to friends and acquaintances to ask them
what they think. But opinions vary, and psychology assessments can
produce different results depending on which ones we administer. With
so many voices around us, it is difficult to find the right answer to
the age-old question: Who am I?

Some of us find our identities in our talents, skills, and
certifications. In the chase to be recognized as an expert in a
particular field or industry, we can become obsessed about the things
we are good at. As we seek praise and glory, we can fall prey to the
mistake of defining ourselves by what we do. In our efforts to be
recognized and lauded, we may end up seeing ourselves as a set of
skills and passions, such as “I am an artist” or “I am an IT
specialist”. But is that all we are?

For those of us who may not feel like we have any particular talent,
skill, or certification, we may define ourselves by our
characteristics, behavior, or preferences. It could be the way we
style our hair, the way we dress, or the hobby we pursue. We take
pride in our quirks that we feel make us unique. I, for one, like
people to see me as someone who is always under-dressed: I might just
throw on a pair of slippers and shorts before heading to town. Or we
may like to be known as café hoppers, cat lovers, or foodies. Again,
is that all about who we are?

Of course, many of these things are a real part of our characters,
personalities, and passions. But surely that is not all who we are.
Are we just a combination of talents, preferences, and styles? What
would our Maker have to say?

See what great love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be
called children of God! And that is what we are! (1 John 3:1a)

So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith.
(Galatians 3:26)

The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in
fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your
adoption to sonship. (Romans 8:15)

I may not be able to answer the question of “Who am I?”, but I know
whose I am, and that puts everything in perspective. Ultimately, my
preferences, abilities, and talents aren’t critical. We are God’s
children, and we are to live in this truth. Let’s remember this so
that we can avoid falling into the trap of defining ourselves by small
things and forgetting our bigger purpose in life.

*ENTP is the abbreviation for extroversion, intuition, thinking,
perception used in the publications of the Myers–Briggs Type Indicator
(MBTI).

