http://ymi.today/2017/10/what-to-do-if-youve-misplaced-your-identity/

What To Do If You’ve Misplaced Your Identity

Author: by Contributor

Written By Hannah Shoue, USA

One of the latest buzzwords in today’s culture is “identity”. Whether
it’s race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, socioeconomic status,
or relationship status, there are so many ways we can identify
ourselves.

Naturally, it can be confusing to figure out what our true identity
should be. Even as Christians, we can place our identity in things
other than Christ.

There was a time in my life where I lost myself in a desire for
romantic relationships. When I was in high school, I craved being in a
relationship and went through several failed relationships. Some were
relationships that didn’t work out, and some were relationships that
didn’t happen although I badly wanted them to. During the summer
before my senior year of high school, I got to a point where I felt
worn out, lost, and far from God.

One day, my thoughts drifted back to the time before I entered my
first relationship. I remembered how in my earlier years of high
school, I had felt so close to God that I didn’t worry about getting
into a relationship. That’s when I realized that I had let my desire
for a relationship get between me and God. I had stopped trusting the
God of love stories to write my story, and instead had tried to take
the pen and write my story myself.

After that realization, I decided I wanted to get close to God again.
I wanted to give the pen back to God and trust that His stories for me
would be infinitely better than anything I could come up with on my
own.

However, this was easier said than done. I needed to re-center my
identity back on Christ, and not let my relationship status define
myself. Here were three things that helped me



During the time I was trying to put God first again, I found
journaling to be incredibly helpful. I’m a writer and word lover, so
writing down my prayers to God helped me process my experiences.

I also noted down quotes or Bible verses in my journal that helped
redirect my mind towards my goal of getting to know God better. During
that time, one of the passages that reminded me of God’s nearness came
from Psalm 73:23-26:

Yet I am always with you; you hold me by my right hand. You guide me
with your counsel, and afterward you will take me into glory. Whom
have I in heaven but you? And earth has nothing I desire besides you.
My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart
and my portion forever.



Part of my problem was that I was focusing too much of my thoughts and
energy on having a romantic relationship. My life was centered on my
own desires instead of God’s desires for me.

When I realized the need to put God first in my life and get to know
Him better, I began to re-orient my life around God. Whenever I
started thinking too much about romantic relationships or feeling
dejected because of being single, I would pray to God and remind
myself that He has a plan for me.

This process is gradual. I still find myself worried, anxious, and
uneasy about things going on in my life when I let my own desires take
control. It is when I keep God at the center of my thoughts,
decisions, and relationships that I experience peace. Even now, I
still have to remind myself that putting God first is the most
important and most rewarding thing.



The knowledge that I am loved by God, and that God completes me and is
all I need helps me to approach my life in a new way. Instead of
searching for a partner to fulfill my own emotional and spiritual
needs, I can search for a partner because I’m looking for a companion
in the race God has called me to run.

There’s nothing wrong with desiring a significant other, or desiring
other things, such as good grades or good friendships. But the
difference is that when I identify myself as a child of Christ, I
begin to seek those things with a Christ-like attitude of wanting to
glorify Him (Psalm 37:4).



When I look back on my life, what strikes me most is that God didn’t
wait until I had it all together before bringing a significant other
into my life. When I first met David, it was during the fall of my
senior year, when I was still working on getting closer to God and
trusting Him with my romantic relationships.

But the biggest difference between my relationship with David and my
prior relationships was that it was God who brought us together. David
and I met at a Christian retreat, and were both at a similar place in
our faith journeys. Early on in our relationship, we both shared how
each of us had struggled in the past with desiring romantic
relationships and a lack of trust in God. At the time we were getting
to know each other, we had both been praying that God would reveal the
right person to us in His time. That was one of the first things I
loved about David—that he was trying to be intentional about his
relationship with God like I was.

I prayed a lot before entering my relationship with David because my
plans had been to wait for college to start dating again. But I
decided to trust God with our relationship, and as we grew closer, I
felt even more assured that my relationship with David was not against
God’s will. I’m now in my second year of college, and I’m happy to say
that David and I will be celebrating our two-year anniversary in
December.

I do still struggle with misplacing my identity sometimes. It’s
tempting to look to David to fulfill all my needs, but I’ve found when
we trust in God and turn to Him together, we are then able to love
each other best.

