http://ymi.today/2015/09/how-do-we-know-for-sure-that-christianity-is-
the-truth/

How do we know for sure that Christianity is the Truth?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joshua Woo

Formerly a pastoral staff of a Presbyterian church in Singapore,
Joshua Woo is now a political secretary to a Member of Parliament in
Malaysia serving in a multi-religious constituency.

I recently attended a religious ceremony at a Siamese Buddhist temple
as part of an official visit by my MP. Several Muslims and Christians
were also at the ceremony, as they had been invited after having
helped the temple to solve some issues.

With the different religious groups not only living peacefully
together but also helping to improve lives in one another’s community,
some people might be led to think that aside from their beliefs and
rituals, there is no fundamental difference between the different
religions.

We might then ask: How do we know that Christianity is the truth?

This question prompted me to think about my own faith journey.

Personal Salvation

I was born into a family that followed traditional Chinese religious
customs. My parents burned joss sticks and hell-money as offerings to
our ancestors, and offered food on an altar in our home on certain
religious occasions.

When I was about 12 years old, my parents started to practise Mahayana
Buddhism, and I followed their lead and became a devout Buddhist. I
was taught to follow Buddha’s teaching to attain “enlightenment”,
which was supposed to free me from the cycle of reincarnation know as
samsara. This meant doing good deeds and avoiding bad deeds, which
would affect what happened at the next reincarnation.

In trying to attain “enlightenment”, I even became a novice monk,
which involved shaving my head, going on a strict vegetarian diet,
staying in a temple, and observing over 200 rules. I wanted to be
freed from samsara, so I thought I would be a Buddhist my whole life.

When I was 17 years old, however, I started to struggle over the
possibility that I would not be able to attain enlightenment because
of the many bad things I had done. When I was 17 years old, however, I
started to struggle over the possibility that I would not be able to
attain enlightenment because of the many bad things I had done.
Perhaps, I thought, there was no way I could be freed from samsara,
and would be stuck in the perpetual cycle of reincarnation. This
created much uncertainty about my eternal destiny—until I accompanied
a friend to his church.

That day, I learned that God came into our world through Jesus Christ
to liberate us from the consequences of our bad deeds. It was a
message that resonated deeply with my need for liberation. The same
evening, I accepted Christ as my Savior.

That was how I became a Christian. It started with the realization
that I couldn’t do anything to save myself, and ended with the
experience of being loved, forgiven, and accepted by God, despite all
that I had done. In a way, Buddhism had helped me to realize my need
for divine grace, which led me to Christ.

Making Sense of Life

For a long time, I was also constantly feeling restless. Regardless of
what I did, I felt that something significant was missing in my life.
Initially, I thought it was companionship, so I got into a
relationship. But the restlessness remained. Then I thought it was the
lack of achievement, so I went to do certain things that I had always
wanted to do. Yet I still felt restless. And I just couldn’t make
sense of it.

After I became a Christian, I started to read up more about my
newfound faith. Several books helped me to make sense of life and see
it from a Christian perspective. In Mere Christianity, for example, C.
S. Lewis wrote about his own sense of restlessness: “If I find in
myself desires which nothing in this world can satisfy, the only
logical explanation is that I was made for another world.”

That statement completely resonated with me. Finally, it all made
sense. I realized that we are always restless in this world because
God has created us for another world. I realized that we are always
restless in this world because God has created us for another world.

Christianity speaks to my innermost sentiments and helps me make sense
of them. As Lewis wrote, “I believe in Christianity as I believe the
sun has risen: Not only because I see it, but because by it I see
everything else.”

Jesus’ Reality

However, religious experience and making sense of one’s own feelings
are not enough for one to be certain of the truthfulness of
Christianity. Our faith, after all, is built on the claims and actions
of one person, Jesus. So, in order to be certain, we have to be
convinced that Jesus really existed.

There is a big debate about this: some people believe that He is real,
while others think otherwise. There are also some who accept He
existed, but don’t believe what He said or did—including dying on the
cross and rising to life.

There is sufficient scholarly persuasion, however, that provides a
strong case that Jesus was real and that all He said and did were
true. For example, we have the Gospel accounts—Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John—which testify about the life of Jesus. While some scholars
have cast doubt on the Gospels’ reliability as they are based on the
authors’ memories, others have argued otherwise, saying that the
Gospels should be read as ancient biographies, and are essentially
eyewitness accounts. A study of church history show that the four
Gospels in the New Testament were accepted very early on as
authoritative records of Jesus’ life.

Conclusion

In summary, these are the three reasons that show me that Christianity
is indeed the truth:

(1) My experience of God’s love through the liberating message of the
gospel. (2) The realization that Christianity helps me make sense of
my life. (3) The confirmation that Jesus’ life and actions are true.

Of course, knowing all this does not mean that we put down other
religions. In my own faith transition, I have learned that there are
elements in other religions that God can use to lead people to Him.
While we remain convicted of our own faith, we can learn to appreciate
and be open to learning from others. At the same time, we can remain
steadfast in our faith, knowing that Christianity is the truth.

