http://ymi.today/2017/01/how-do-we-recognize-gods-voice/

How Do We Recognize God’s Voice?

Author: by Raphael Zhang

It was night. The boy was in bed, his eyes heavy with drowsiness. His
grandfather was sound asleep in another room.

Suddenly, the boy heard someone call his name. His eyes sprang wide
open. It was such a clear voice, as though the person was standing
beside him. Looking around but seeing no one, the boy thought it must
be his grandfather who called him. So he went to his grandfather’s
room.

“Grandpa, you called me?”

Grandpa woke up, startled. “No, I didn’t. Go back to bed.”

The boy climbed back into bed. Shortly after that, he heard his name
again. He went back to Grandpa, and again, Grandpa said it wasn’t him.
It happened again, and once again, the boy was at Grandpa’s side.

Finally, Grandpa realized what was happening. He told the boy, “Go
back to bed. If God calls your name again, say to Him, ‘Yes Lord, I’m
listening to You.’”

So the boy went back to bed, and sure enough, he heard the voice call
his name again.

This time, he said, “Yes, I’m listening to You.”

And God began to tell the boy what He wanted to say.



Remember this story? It’s found in the Bible, except that the boy was
Samuel and the grandfather was the priest Eli. That was the night when
God first called Samuel (1 Samuel 3).

Many of us wish we could hear God speak to us the way He spoke to
Samuel. But while most—if not all—of us won’t get to hear God’s voice
in such a clear way, there are a few things we can glean from this
account on how to recognize God’s voice.



“[T]he Lord called Samuel. Samuel answered, ‘Here I am.’” — 1 Samuel
3:4

I used to struggle with not being able to hear God. But He led me to
realize that just as Samuel can hear God’s voice, we as Christians can
hear the voice of Christ. Jesus, the Good Shepherd, said His sheep
hear His voice (John 10:27, ESV).

That’s when I began to take the Shepherd at His word. When I stopped
doubting, I began to hear Him more clearly.



“Samuel did not yet know the Lord: The word of the Lord had not yet
been revealed to him.” — 1 Samuel 3:7

Samuel heard a voice call his name, but he did not know it was God who
was speaking. He had to be told by Eli that it was the Lord (1 Samuel
3:9). In the same way, although God may be speaking to us, we may not
know that it’s His voice. So we need to learn how to recognize His
voice. We can’t do that if we don’t know how He speaks. And how would
we know how God speaks unless we know who He is and what He’s like?

The passage says that Samuel didn’t know the Lord then because the
word of the Lord wasn’t revealed to him yet. That tells us that
knowing God’s Word is crucial to knowing God Himself.

The Bible says, “All Scripture is God-breathed” (2 Timothy 3:16). The
Bible is God’s revelation of Himself to us in writing, His primary
means of showing Himself and His ways to us. So if we want to
understand and know Him well (Jeremiah 9:24, ESV), we have to
understand and know Scripture well.

The more I get into God’s Word, the more it helps me to know God
better—what His character and His ways are like. I get a more complete
picture of who He is, and that allows me to recognize His voice more
clearly.

So if I hear a voice that prompts me to indulge in lust or envy or
pride or selfishness or hatred, I know it’s definitely not Him
speaking, because the Lord exercises and delights in kindness, justice
and righteousness (Jeremiah 9:24). It cannot be God’s voice because it
would be contrary to His character, which is compassionate, gracious,
patient, loving, faithful, forgiving, and just (Exodus 34:5-7).

When I hear a voice that tells me to obey the Father’s commands and
reveal His heart to others (John 15:10, Matthew 5:16), to love the Son
and walk as He did (John 14:15, 1 John 1:7), to grow in the fruit and
gifts of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-23, Romans 12:6-8; 1 Corinthians
12:8-10), then I recognize that it’s clearly God speaking to me
because it’s consistent with who He says He is in His Word. The Bible
is our plumb line to discern how He speaks.

God can also speak in a variety of other ways. For example, He can
speak to us in an audible voice; in His still, small voice, like a
gentle whisper in our heart (1 Kings 19:11-13); through the people
around us (Acts 21:11); in dreams (Genesis 40); through nature (Romans
1:20); in visions (Acts 9:10-18); in prophecies (Acts 11:27-28);
through circumstances (Acts 16:6-7); and through miraculous events,
among many others.

However, unless we are grounded in our understanding of what God and
His ways are like through reading the Bible, we would not be able to
accurately interpret these other forms in which He might speak to us.
Just like how we would tend to misinterpret what a person does or says
when we don’t truly understand his or her character, we’d be more
likely to misinterpret God’s voice and actions if we don’t know what
He’s really like.

Jesus said, “My sheep know Me” (John 10:14). We have to know the
Shepherd so that we know what His voice sounds like. And to know
Jesus, the Word of God (Revelation 19:13), we need to know the Bible,
God’s Word.



“[I]f [the Lord] calls you, say, ‘Speak, Lord, for your servant is
listening.’” — 1 Samuel 3:9

As a priest, Eli would have known Scripture very well. He would have
meditated on God’s commandments and ministered to other people from
God’s laws. This is why it didn’t take long before he “realized that
the Lord was calling the boy” (1 Samuel 3:8). It was his knowledge of
God’s Word that helped him to discern that it was God who spoke to
Samuel.

As we are learning to recognize God’s voice, we can also seek counsel
from godly people who are more mature in their faith and more
experienced in hearing from God. They can help us to learn how to
discern His voice better.



“Then Samuel said, ‘Speak, for your servant is listening.’” — 1 Samuel
3:10

When Samuel said he was listening to God, he also meant that he was
ready to obey Him. The Hebrew word for “listening” is shama, which
carries the meaning of “to obey”.

It’s not enough to just hear what God says. More than just recognizing
God’s voice, we must also be willing to obey Him when He speaks. Jesus
said, “Blessed . . . are those who hear the word of God and obey it”
(Luke 11:28; emphasis added). And when we do, we are delighting our
Father’s heart with our obedience (1 Samuel 15:22).

If we find that God has stopped speaking to us regarding a certain
issue, one of the possible reasons could be that He’s waiting for us
to first obey Him on what He has already told us on the matter, before
He tells us what the next step is. If we do not desire to obey God
when He does speak, why would He keep speaking to us when we keep
ignoring Him?

In Jeremiah 7:23, it doesn’t say, “Distinguish My voice, and I will be
your God.” The devil can clearly distinguish God’s voice, but he
doesn’t desire to obey or submit to Him as his God. Rather, the verse
says, “Obey My voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be My
people. And walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be
well with you” (emphasis added).

As the sheep of our Good Shepherd, we are called to follow Him by
listening to His voice (John 10:27). To do that, we need to know Him
through His Word so that we can learn how to recognize His voice. And
when we experience the joy of recognizing His voice, our joy will be
complete when we obey and follow Him in the way He calls us to walk.



Raphael enjoys reading and writing, and experiences them as means of
connecting with the Word too beautiful for words. He believes there’s
no such thing as having too many books. Having been led by Jehovah-
Rapha to journey out of brokenness toward wholeness, he is passionate
about bringing God’s healing to others, so that the brokenhearted can
become wholehearted in loving God and people with all their heart,
soul, mind, and strength. He’s also crazy about cheeses, but his
greatest love is still Jesus.



