http://ymi.today/2015/05/the-superpower-i-always-wanted-to-have/

The Superpower I Always Wanted to Have

Author: by Amy Ji

When asked what superpower I would like to have in my younger days, I
would always reply, “invisibility.” As a teenager, I’ve been through
many embarrassing moments where I wished I could just disappear, like
when I woke up late and my hair looked like a mop, or when my friends
played a prank on me in front of my crush. There was even this one
time when I fell off my bicycle in the public park because I was
daydreaming.

Were there moments where you wished you could just vanish on the spot?
Perhaps you thought no one would notice. No one would care if you just
vaporized. Perhaps the world might even be a better place without you.
Yet the Bible tells me that each one of us is unique and special; we
are fearfully and wonderfully made by God (Psalm 139:13-14). And God
even knows (or bothers to number) the very hairs on our heads (Matthew
10:30).

I found these truths difficult to accept as a young person. Each time
I looked at the mirror, I saw an ugly person with an unacceptable
figure and dull features. A lot of this thinking stemmed from
incidents that happened during my childhood. Well-meaning relatives
would advise me to pinch my nose regularly since it was so flat, or to
take a trip to Korea after high school to fix my single eyelids. As I
grew older, I came to realize however that a lot of the negative
thoughts I had about my body came from myself rather than from others.
When people complimented me about how I looked or dressed, I would
quickly dismiss these as untrue. I was the one having trouble
accepting myself.

So how did I overcome this? Or rather, how am I overcoming this? Thus
far, it has been a journey of slow but sure transformation as I’m
learning to see the facts of the Bible as truths in my life. Thus far,
it has been a journey of slow but sure transformation as I’m learning
to see the facts of the Bible as truths in my life. The Bible says
that God loves me (1 John 4:10), His plans for me are for my good
(Romans 8:28), and that every good gift is from above (James 1:17).
It’s a beautiful picture of how our amazing and loving heavenly Father
cares for us. This makes what I’m wearing and how people perceive me
really inane concerns in the grand scheme of things.

In fact, the Bible goes on to describe just how much our loving Father
knows about us. As Psalm 139:16 says, “Your eyes saw my unformed
body; all the days ordained for me were written in your book before
one of them came to be.” Even before my birth, He has laid out every
day of my life. What a comforting and astounding fact that is.

Today, by the grace of God, I no longer have the urge to be invisible.
Instead, I accept compliments graciously and try to find ways to
compliment those around me. Each time I meet up with my friends, I try
to notice a positive change or an effort they make in dressing up.
After some practice, I’m beginning to really appreciate the diversity
and beauty God has fearfully and wonderfully made in each one of
us—not only in others, but also in myself.





Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



