http://ymi.today/2015/09/sharing-your-faith-what-not-to-do/

Sharing Your Faith: What Not to Do

Author: by Contributor

Written By James Bunyan

James Bunyan is a bit of a fidget, to be honest. His inability to sit
still tends to spill over into all sorts of areas of his life; he
loves travelling, good writing, all sports (except frisbee), the sense
of purpose that the gospel gives him, exotic teas and the satisfaction
of peeling off a sticker all in one go. He lives in Teddington
(London), where he is training to be a vicar in the Church of England.
For James and his wife Lois, lockdown in London was improved by the
arrival of their daughter, Galilee, who just learned to clap.

Sharing our faith can be pretty tricky.

Christianity is contagious and yet, in this world of easy
communication and hundreds of different beliefs, sharing the gospel
with family, friends, dentists, garbage collectors, colleagues,
enemies, taxi drivers, teammates or others can often go awry pretty
quickly—without us even knowing why. Well, it could be because we are
making some classic mistakes when we interact with people with other
beliefs and worldviews:

We think: The person opposite us has nothing to offer when it comes to
matters of faith, so we make sure we enlighten them by dominating the
conversation. After all, they need to hear about Jesus, don’t they?
And that’s not going to happen if we just sit there and listen to
them, right? Maybe we should even interrupt them when they try
changing the subject . . .

We think: Whenever we engage anyone in a conversation about faith, the
truth of the gospel is at stake! It’s Christianity vs Whatever-
Nonsense-They-Believe, so don’t let Jesus down! So hammer their
arguments into the dust, using all our powers of persuasion, logic,
and wisdom (and, if it helps, do some shouting as well). Actually,
Facebook is the best for this, because we can write however much we
like without having to look at our readers or acknowledge that they
are people just like us.

We think: If we’re talking about faith, then there’s no need to
discuss how this works in practice or talk about what Jesus is
currently teaching us. Besides, they may either find that odd. Or,
they may find out that Christians don’t always live perfectly
themselves—that would not only be embarrassing, but we would also lose
the argument (see above).

We think: If they have a different worldview, they don’t believe in
Jesus, so there’s no need to talk about Him. Besides, He says some
pretty odd things that won’t make us look too good; bits about angels,
violence, and hell. Stick to talking about things like “searching for
ourselves” and “not being perfect” that we can all relate to.

We think: We are this person’s last hope of becoming a Christian! So
make sure we never leave anything out, even if they don’t seem too
keen to listen. Follow them out the door and down the road if we have
to, so long as we finish what we’re saying!

As you’ve probably worked out by now, sharing your faith like this
would be a total disaster. Yet many of us make these mistakes. And the
biggest mistake is that we don’t respect people enough as precious
humans made in the image of God. So the only message we end up sending
to them is that Christians don’t listen, don’t care, are opinionated
and, worst of all, consider people with other worldviews stupid and
not worth engaging with.

In contrast, the Gospels show us that Jesus never talked to two
different people in precisely the same way. Was it because He
understood that each person’s worldview is unique and worthy of
respect? Perhaps it means that sharing our faith is not so much about
downloading information to people, as about dignifying them by
appealing to and challenging their whole humanity, emotions and all.
After all, imagine what Christians can achieve when they do the
opposite of what we saw above. Imagine Christians who:

All this takes a little patient practice; it isn’t as easy as just
following a recipe or memorizing a method.

But it could be a lot more exciting, couldn’t it?

Photo credit: thematthewknot / Foter / CC BY

