http://ymi.today/2015/04/why-im-so-affected-by-the-nepal-quake/

Why I’m so Affected by the Nepal Quake

Author: by Tracy Phua

Just three days ago, the world recoiled in horror as images of
devastation and disaster unfolded on the news—Nepal had been hit by a
7.9 magnitude earthquake, the worst to hit the nation in more than 80
years. Having been to Kathmandu numerous times and forged some good
relationships with the locals there, I was greatly shaken by the news.

Upon reading about the rising death toll (it has since exceeded 4,000
people), I quickly contacted my Nepali friends on Facebook. The first
to reply was a friend whom I have known since 2008; she works in an
orphanage in the plains south of Kathmandu. I was so relieved to hear
that she, along with the kids at the orphanage, were fine.

Unfortunately, the situation was not good in her village in Gorkha
(which is near to the epicentre of the quake). Her grandmother didn’t
survive the catastrophe and many of the locals lost their homes.



(Her late grandmother is pictured on the extreme left.)

The bad news continued as updates from my other friends in Kathmandu
streamed in. Like those in Gorkha, many of them were now homeless.
Other friends living on the Eastern Mountains closer to Mount Everest
also shared that their homes were wrecked and that they and their
families were spending the night outdoors. Given the cold weather, the
impending monsoon season, and the loss of all their belongings,
nothing was looking up for them right now. On top of that, they are
still experiencing aftershocks.

I have yet to hear from a few more friends. It worries me as one of
them lives in Pokhara, a city also devastated by the quake.

Yet amid all the gloom and doom, I’m encouraged to hear the good that
is happening. The first friend that I mentioned told me that her
husband plans to go back to their village in Gorkha to see how he can
help the villagers there. It warms my heart to see Nepalese people
reaching out to their fellow countrymen in this trying time.

I’m also amazed by how believers in Nepal are still giving thanks in
the midst of their painful and difficult circumstance. As I think
about it, indeed we can still thank God in our adversity. The
earthquake happened on a Saturday when the children were not in
schools. It could have occurred on a weekday, in the freezing cold
winters, or at night, which would drive up the death toll because most
people would be indoors—but it didn’t.

No doubt the rebuilding and recovery process is going to be a long
one. Let’s pray for the people in Nepal. Oswald Chambers exhorts, “I
do believe that by intercessory prayer, as Jesus Himself has told us,
the great power of God works in ways that we cannot conceive.”

Here are some prayer pointers:





(Image of Patan Durbar Square before the earthquake. It has since been
completely devastated.)



(Image of Durbar Square after the earthquake.)

CREDIT: AP





Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



