http://ymi.today/2015/10/did-jesus-really-tell-us-not-to-judge/

Did Jesus Really Tell Us Not to Judge?

Author: by Wendy Wong

“Do not judge, or you too will be judged.”

We’ve all read Jesus’ words in Matthew 7:1. It’s a popular verse
that’s often used to rebuke Christians for judging the lifestyles,
practices, or values of other people. This is especially so when it
comes to highly contentious and contested debates, such as gay
marriage and abortion.

Who is right—those who declare such things as sin, or those who argue
that Jesus disapproves of those who judge? I remember feeling lost and
confused about whose side I was supposed to take.

Perhaps, however, it is the common assumption underlying this verse
that we need to address first. Did Jesus really tell us not to judge
others?

The short answer is no. Jesus did tell us to make judgments, but with
a caveat: there’s a difference between judgment as condemnation, and
judgment as discernment. In the famed passage—Matthew 7—where Jesus
tells His followers “not to judge”, He makes a distinction between the
two.



Jesus did warn His followers against condemning others hypocritically
like the Pharisees did. The Pharisees thought that because they were
God’s chosen people, they were spiritually and morally better than the
Gentiles. Today, we too can easily make the same mistake when we
condemn other people for their sins.

But Jesus tells us that this is wrong. When we see others as inferior
to us—be it in terms of religion, background, or circumstance—we are
in effect saying that they are less worthy or valuable than we are.
Jesus warns us not to see ourselves as inherently better than any
other.

You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you
will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye (Matthew
7:5).

Jesus’ point is that before we judge the sins of others, we ought to
examine ourselves first. We are to repent of our own sins and correct
our lives before seeking to correct others. If we judge others because
we believe we are superior or more righteous than they—while
committing the very same sins—then we are no different from the
Pharisees. This is what both Jesus (Matthew 23:25-28) and the apostle
Paul also warned against (Romans 2:3).

Jesus also warned us not to judge others based on superficial
attributes, the way Simon the Pharisee did to the woman who wept at
Jesus’ feet. He had criticized her because of her reputation (Luke
7:36-50). This is what Jesus means when he says in John 7:24, “Do not
judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.”



While Jesus rejects an unholy sense of moral superiority, He does want
us to discern wisely between right and wrong. In fact, throughout the
Bible we are commanded to do so (Hebrews 5:14, 1 Corinthians 2:14-15).
This discernment, however, should not cross the line into
condemnation.

Judgment is essential for assessing what is right and wrong. We have
an almost instinctive reaction when we witness sin being committed. It
could be your sister stealing money from your mother’s purse, or a
government carrying out genocide halfway across the globe.

Opposing or confronting sin is not wrong. When we stand for God’s
standard and definition of truth and holiness, we are against what is
false and sinful. When we stand for God’s standard and definition of
truth and holiness, we are against what is false and sinful. What is
wrong is accepting the popular but inaccurate notion that we should
not judge anything as wrong.

Yet today, the word “judgment” has taken on such extreme negative
connotations.



As Christians, we ought to stop and ask ourselves (and God), “Am I
condemning critically with unholy and unrighteous motivations, while
committing the very same sin? Or am I prayerfully discerning between
what is good and evil according to God’s Word, with the intent of
pointing others gently towards Christ?”

We are called to examine our own hearts first, before seeking to
correct others (Jeremiah 17:9). Once we have prayerfully and rightly
discerned, we should speak the truth in love (Ephesians 4:15). There
cannot be one without the other.

Galatians 6:1 tells us that if a fellow believer is trapped in sin, we
should “restore him gently”. Similarly, James 5:20 tells us that
“whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will save him from
death and cover over a multitude of sins.”

When we talk about our stand on what’s right and wrong, or when we see
fellow Christians doing something wrong, we should remember that we
aren’t called to point fingers, but to point them towards Christ. This
is what speaking love with truth means.

Let us follow the example of our Lord and Savior, who confronted
critical attitudes, encouraged wise discernment between good and evil,
and embodied truth and grace perfectly (John 1:14).



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



