http://ymi.today/2016/10/church-a-gathering-of-sinners-or-saints/

Church: A Gathering of Sinners or Saints?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jacelyn Chia, Singapore

Each week when I step into church, at least one person will ask, “How
are you?” or “How have you been?” My response is often short, and
almost always accompanied with a smile, “I’m good, how about you?”

On some days, that’s exactly how I feel. Other times, nothing could be
further from the truth. And I know I’m not alone.

We feel the need to pretend we have got everything together, because
we don’t want to be judged. We feel that these greetings are simply
cordial exchanges, and that no one really bothers about what is going
on in our lives. For instance, when we share a prayer request with our
cell group’s WhatsApp chat, all we receive is blue ticks. We feel that
sharing our problems may be burdening others.

We are uncomfortable about acknowledging or sharing about the
struggles, problems, pain and negative feelings we experience. We fear
the awkward pause that ensues after we bare our hearts to someone.

I admit that I too, don a mask to church, one portraying a cheerful
and exuberant disposition. Everyone appears to be coping well with the
demands of life and I do not want to stick out like a sore thumb. On
days I cannot muster enough energy to put on that façade, I skip
church. It’s usually when the past week at school has been both
physically and emotionally draining.

I remember that a speaker once described the church as a “hospital for
sinners”. I did not get it. Why would a church be called a hospital if
most people don’t seem to be struggling with real issues? Most of the
time, I feel like the church is a gathering of successful people,
people who appear unaffected by the brunt of life.

But gradually, a few daring church members changed my perspective. My
church practises open worship, where individuals who feel led by the
Spirit can share a verse or pick a song for worship. I often feel
encouraged when I hear a church member share about his or her personal
struggle, and how God has personally helped him or her through that
tumultuous time.

I admire their courage to be so vulnerable to the congregation, to be
able to come to terms with the fact that they need God and the prayer
of the congregation to get through difficult times. What I’ve observed
after that was just as encouraging: individuals approach them after
service to offer a listening ear or spend time with them in private
prayer.

In my own life, I’ve experienced such concern. Once, my Sunday school
teacher observed that I had appeared distracted in class, and had
taken the time to speak to me afterwards. Seeing how she was willing
to take time off to listen to me and acknowledge my struggles deeply
encouraged me.

Slowly, I decided to take small steps to be more authentic, as well as
to extend care and concern to others, just as I had received.

The thought of listening to someone else’s struggles and sorrows may
sound like a daunting task. But perhaps that’s because we think we
need to be able to solve their problems. And that paralyzes us from
even offering a listening ear.

I’ve found these to be helpful ways we can respond to our brothers and
sisters in Christ when they share:

I learned through first-hand experience that when we’re willing to be
vulnerable with others, others will respond the same way. Let’s work
towards being honest, open, and specific about our own prayer requests
as well as more concerned and intentional about caring for others.
After all, isn’t that what a community of believers is all about?

