http://ymi.today/2017/09/is-it-possible-to-rejoice-always/

Is It Possible to Rejoice Always?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Rebekah Lamorena, New Zealand

In the midst of never-ending to-do lists, changes in my workplace, and
pressure coming from all directions, joy has, at times, seemed more
like a distant figure rather than a constant companion. I have been
frustrated, anxious, doubtful, stressed—sometimes, all at once.

Feeling down or anxious isn’t the easiest thing to talk about,
especially as a Christian. In fact, a lot of us would rather conceal
our doubts, worries and anxious thoughts because, hey, we’re
Christians. We’re supposed to be content, happy and positive all the
time, aren’t we?

But the truth is this: no one is immune to pain, suffering and
anxiety. Not even the most seemingly happy or positive people.

How then are Christians supposed to rejoice in broken, bleak, and busy
times? It’s one thing to talk about being joyful in all situations (1
Thessalonians 5:16), but to live it out? That’s a different story.
What are we supposed to do when our joy has been taken from us? When
we are defeated, doubtful and down, how and where are we supposed to
refill our joy tanks?

Earlier this year, I learned that the word “enthusiasm” comes from the
Greek words “en theos” which, when translated, means “in God”. That
alone says a lot. In order for us to remain enthusiastic, which
includes being joyful, we have to continually find our joy in God
first, even when—and especially when—we don’t feel like it. In order
for us to remain enthusiastic, which includes being joyful, we have to
continually find our joy in God first, even when—and especially
when—we don’t feel like it.

The Apostle Paul is a great example. In the darkest days of his life,
he penned some of the most positive and hopeful words in the Bible. He
faced adversity, persecution, disaster and hardship, and yet he never
ceased to believe that God would see him through his many trials.

Paul’s life is proof that though joy cannot be forced, it can still be
experienced in difficult situations. He remained enthusiastic, joyful
and hopeful in God even in the worst conditions. He rejoiced, not in
his own will and courage, but in God. His hope was not in his
situation, in himself or others—his hope was in God.

Paul instructs us to “rejoice always” (1 Thessalonians 5:16,
Philippians 4:4). It isn’t written as a recommendation, but as a
command. And God never gives commandments that we cannot keep. Hence,
when God says “rejoice always”, I believe that we are more than
capable of doing so. Paul was no extraordinary person. He wasn’t
invincible. He wasn’t immune to all kinds of pain. He was just like
us. If he can rejoice, then so can we.

Sometimes it can be incredibly hard to make sense of the not-so-great
things that happen, but I’ve come to find that when our joy is
anchored in God, our lives don’t have to be dictated by anxiety,
denial, or despair.

I remember being filled with worry and doubt as I neared the end of my
university studies and internship. I had no job lined up and my inbox
was full of rejection letters. My mind was plagued with uncertainty
about what the future would bring, but eventually God brought this
word to me: “God proves to be good to the man who passionately waits,
to the woman who diligently seeks” (Lamentations 3:25).

The best thing that came out of obeying God was finding out later what
He had for me all along. Despite what I was feeling and despite the
delays, I decided to cling to God’s word, and let me tell you—God met
me more than halfway. Since my university days, God has showered favor
upon favor on my life, and by His grace I have been able to go further
than I could have ever imagined.

Though that season was a long time ago, I still think about it from
time to time. Through it, God continues to remind and challenge me
that the abundant life He has for me does not depend on my emotions.
By God, through God and in God, I can always choose to rejoice despite
my circumstances.



I am learning that prayer and time reading God’s Word should always be
my first response, and not my last resort. I have found that the more
time I spend reading and reflecting on His word, the less likely I am
to be moved by my temporary feelings.

If you are feeling doubtful, disheartened and defeated today, I
encourage you to be bold enough to find hope and joy in God, and not
in yourself or your circumstance. Dare to believe the promises He has
for you. As soon as troubling thoughts enter your head, combat them
with God’s truth.

Pressure may come at you from all directions, but God’s Word says that
we don’t have to be defeated and destroyed by the situations that face
us.  In 2 Corinthians 4:8-9, Paul writes: “We are hard pressed on
every side, but not crushed; perplexed, but not in
despair; persecuted, but not abandoned; struck down, but not
destroyed.”

You may be heartbroken, but God’s Word says you are never alone:
“Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted” (Matthew
5:4).

You may be troubled by anxious thoughts, but God’s Word says His peace
is just one prayer away: “The Lord is near. Do not be anxious about
anything, but in every situation, by prayer and petition, with
thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the peace of God,
which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your
minds in Christ Jesus.” (Phil 4:5-7).

Your disposition does not have to be dictated by delays, dead ends,
and disappointments. With God, you can always face the facts of your
life, and still believe He is good and at work. It is what it is, but
it’s not how it seems. There is always joy to be found in and beyond
the challenges that come our way. When I first experienced heartbreak,
I found myself already thanking God for what He was about to do in my
life. I thanked God for giving me joy and for already setting me free
from heartbreak, doubt, fear and loneliness. And slowly but surely, it
worked.

Praise precedes victory. Even when your situation seems hopeless and
impossible, thank Him anyway. God in His grace can cause His beauty to
be seen in the toughest of places. No, you may not have it all
together all the time. No, you may not be stress-free, worry-free,
problem-free . . . but you can rejoice in God anyway.

“Though the fig tree does not bud and there are no grapes on the
vines, though the olive crop fails and the fields produce no food,
though there are no sheep in the pen and no cattle in the stalls, yet
I will rejoice in the Lord, I will be joyful in God my Savior. The
Sovereign Lord is my strength; he makes me feel like the feet of a
deer, he enables me to tread on the heights.” (Habakkuk 3:17).

