http://ymi.today/2017/02/why-am-i-still-single/

Why Am I Still Single?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Krysti Wilkinson, USA

I was sitting in church, listening to our pastor, when my eyes fell on
the couple a few rows in front of me. They did something cute—maybe
she leaned her head on his shoulder or he kissed her forehead—that
caught my attention.

I knew the girl, and knew some of her current situation. To me, she
wasn’t necessarily in the healthiest place to be in a new relationship
or making the best choices in life at the moment. And yet, here she
was at church being cute with her cute new boyfriend.

I sighed. I shifted in my seat, and looked up and down the row I was
sitting in. There were seven or eight of us girls, all with our
journals out and pens poised. Some of us had even brought our Bibles
(extra holy points!). We were Christian. We were cute. And we were all
single.

I remember thinking, “We’re doing everything right. We’re following
all the rules. We’re going above and beyond over here—where are our
cute boyfriends?”

It felt like a slap in the face when I heard God come back with, “. .
. when was that ever part of the deal?”

That was the day I realized I had been viewing my dating life, and my
faith, as a merit-based system. If you go to church every week, maybe
you would get asked out. If you’re involved in a weekly Bible study,
you might get a boyfriend. And the holiest of holy people? They earn
enough points for marriage. Apparently, I was not playing the
Christian game correctly, for I was still single.

Written out, I know how ridiculous it sounds. But I also know how real
it felt for so many years and how easy it is to fall into these lies.
When a relationship feels like something you need to earn, finding
yourself single feels like you’ve somehow messed up.

Here’s the thing: dating is not an accomplishment, and marriage is not
a merit badge. We were never promised 2.5 kids and a perfect spouse to
live happily ever after with behind a white picket fence. God never,
ever promised that faithfulness will bring happiness, prosperity, or a
blissful life (often it brings the opposite). Yet, when we see our
friends seemingly living out the picture-perfect life, we find
ourselves questioning: Why not me? Why not my life? Why am I single?

It’s okay to ask those questions. It’s okay to be honest. It’s okay to
feel whatever it is you’re feeling. I think the problem is getting
stuck in those questions.

Maybe you’re wondering why you’re single, and it causes you to do some
self-reflection—are you open to a new relationship? Are you in a
healthy place? Have you been caught up in some bad habits that are
affecting your relationships? Those are good questions to ask.

Maybe you’re wondering why you’re single, and it causes you to spiral
into a dark place—dwelling on all the mistakes you made in your last
relationship, obsessing over every interaction with the opposite sex,
and pouring all your energy into getting someone’s attention.

May I suggest that instead of asking yourself why you’re single, ask
God what He wants you to do with your singleness. I don’t like the
church cliché of “singleness is such a gift!” because I know to some
it can feel like a prison sentence. But God uses gifts and prison
sentences alike.

You don’t have to necessarily love being single or cherish every
second of it—but you can invite God into every second of it. You don’t
have to necessarily love being single or cherish every second of
it—but you can invite God into every second of it. Ask Him what He’s
doing in your life, where He’s leading you, and what He wants for you
next. It might be a relationship, or it might be the exact opposite of
a relationship. I don’t know what He wants for you, but I do know that
He is good and so are His plans.

That day, a few years ago, asking God why I was single caused me to
realize the unhealthy way I had been viewing my faith. It also helped
me check my intentions of doing all this church stuff—am I doing it to
earn a man, or out of love for my Father?

At various other times I’ve asked Him the same question, I’ve realized
that there are ministry opportunities, areas of growth, friendships
that needed nurturing, and even a few guys I would have never
considered dating.

God has a way of surprising us. Sometimes we just have to ask the
question.



