http://ymi.today/2016/12/watching-all-your-friends-get-married/

Watching All Your Friends Get Married

Author: by Contributor

Written By Krysti Wilkinson, USA

I go to a lot of weddings. Like, a lot—five this summer, five last
summer. I hang out with a lot of couples. And I write a lot about
singleness. Go figure, right?

My life, humorous to many, typically brings about a lot of questions.
Isn’t it awkward to hang out with couples? How hard is it to be the
token single friend? How much does it suck going to weddings alone?
And what’s it like to watch all your friends get married?

What is it like? How does it feel? Allow me to let you in on the
biggest secret of Krysti’s Wedding Season 2016: it’s normal.

I don’t know how else to describe it, because it’s just my life. It’s
all I know, really. It just happens to be where God has me right now.
I’m pretty sick of society telling me over and over again that I’m
supposed to hate it, and I’m getting pretty tired of having to explain
to people that I actually don’t detest my current reality.

At its very best, it’s incredibly wonderful. I’m happy for my friends
because they have found the person that makes them come alive, pushes
them to be a better person, and points them back to Jesus. My friends
have navigated the hard conversations, put in the effort, and have now
found someone to promise themselves to forever. That’s exciting!
That’s wonderful! I get to be a part of this treasured season, and I
get to celebrate with them on one of the most special days of their
lives. That’s great. That’s an honor. That’s to be cherished—no matter
what my relationship status is.

At its very worst, it’s incredibly unsettling. My friends have found
their other half and I’m not sure where I fit in the equation. Their
lives are now characterized by compromise, communication, and putting
another person before themselves—whereas I’m in the season of life
where I get to be selfish, focus on my needs, and go wherever God
leads. While they can be the most important people in my life, I know
I’ll never be the most important one in theirs. At the end of the day,
they go home to their best friend; I go home alone. They’ve found
someone and I . . . haven’t.

Typically, however, it’s right in the middle. It’s incredibly
confusing. Sometimes I see my married friends’ relationship dynamics
and I am so grateful I am single; sometimes I see their relationship
dynamics and I really wish I am not. I don’t understand why God
brought someone special into their lives and has yet to do so in mine.
At times I feel loved and secure in my friendships; other times, I
feel constantly put on the back burner, constantly forgotten about. I
am loved in my singleness, and yet I am constantly set up, introduced,
and nudged to be not single. I try hard to care about marriage
problems and empathize with things I know nothing about, but my single
problems and issues can feel brushed aside. That boy texting me? Never
mind that, what about her husband?

I don’t feel lesser, I don’t feel unloved, and I definitely don’t feel
like something is wrong with me. But watching all your friends get
married while you remain single is like watching all your friends
graduate college when you never had the chance to go. Are you any less
intelligent? Are you automatically lesser? No. And yet . . . it can
feel a bit like that at times. When you’re all the same age and yet in
very different life stages, it’s easy to feel a bit left behind.

I’m now recovering from wedding season busy-ness, while my friends are
recovering from their honeymoon. As I’m falling back into old routines
and familiar patterns, they are trying to create new rhythms and
seeking new routines with their new spouse. Like getting rejected from
your dream school and having to watch friends live the life you
expected, I see my friends living out a life stage everyone assumed I
would be in by now.

It’s like having a lifelong conversation about a place everyone in the
room has traveled to, except you. Everyone has had this experience and
seen these places, and you’ve only heard about them. Although you’ve
also traveled and know things about traveling, and although you’ve had
so many conversations about traveling to this place, you can’t really
join the conversation. You can’t talk of your experiences there. You
haven’t even been given a visa yet. You can try all you want and give
all your advice, but some people will never take your word, simply
because you haven’t seen it. You haven’t experienced it. You haven’t
been there.

Sometimes, all you want to do is to talk about something other than
traveling. Something you all have in common. But marriage seems to
affect everything—everything! Where can you go that feels safe,
neutral?

Sometimes, it seems, nowhere.

I know it’s not quite the same—but when I moved back to the US after
living in Malawi, Africa, I felt like no one understood, no one knew
exactly the reverse culture shock I was going through. After spending
so long so far away from family, friends, and my norm, I suddenly
found myself home and smack dab in the middle of “normal”—except it
now felt foreign. All my friends were wonderful and well intentioned,
but no one knew. And did I push them away and claim we couldn’t be
friends because we had different life experiences? Did I shut them out
and try to find new friends who might understand me better? Did I give
up on our friendships because we were at different places in life? Of
course not.

I try, over and over again, to emphasize that my friends are my
friends—single, married, male, female, whatever. I believe God brings
people into our lives to shape us and grow us—not to be exactly like
us. I’m beyond blessed that the majority of my friends have married
wonderful, wonderful people who have since become my friends. I
understand this isn’t always the case, and I get that it’s hard when
someone you’re close to marries someone you aren’t—and probably will
never be—close to.

I’m part of a group of five—my two best friends and their
husbands—whom I hang out with all the time. All the time. People
always ask me, in hushed tones, about how hard that must be for me.
How is it, really, constantly hanging out with two couples? Answer:
It’s the best. Because it’s never my friends and their husbands; it’s
my four friends. It’s not Krysti the Single and Them the Couple; it’s
a group of friends committed to each other, despite any differences.
It’s not uncomfortable, awkward third wheeling, because we’re all
equally present and all equally cherished. Why should my friends’
marital status—or mine—determine how much I love, care for, or invest
in them?

Some days, I don’t even notice it. We sit on the couch and we all
catch up and we all make fun of each other. We all love each other so
much and we all know each other so well—it isn’t Krysti and two
couples, it isn’t us and her, it’s a group of friends. It’s my team.
We get up to say our goodbyes and it’s two by two by . . . oh, just
one. Just me. I get in my car alone and I drive home alone and I go to
bed alone. And it’s okay; I’m okay.

Other days, it’s all I notice. I sit on the couch and hear talk about
weddings and couples and grocery shopping together—things I don’t
quite have a voice in. It’s hand holding and discussing communication
patterns and laughing about fights we’ve had . . . uh, they’ve had,
and it’s marriage talk. I’m thankful to be a part of it; I’m glad I’m
given this insight, and I’m grateful my friends love me enough to give
me the real-life, front-seat version of their happily ever after. But
then we part ways and I get in my car alone and drive home alone and
get in bed alone and I can’t help but think, they aren’t doing any of
these things alone . . .

I don’t know how long this will be my life. How many more weddings
will I go to before it’s my wedding? How many more proposals will I
help plan before a boy gets down on one knee in front of me? Will that
ever happen? I don’t know.

It can be easy to assume I missed some train, that singleness will
forever be my norm. It can be easy to assume—in a culture so obsessed
with relationships—that somehow God forgot about me and my happiness.
It can be easy to believe a whole host of unhelpful, untruthful lies
about singlehood. But luckily there are a few things I know to be
true.

I know that God is bigger than my relationship status, my friendships,
and my life stage. I know that God is bigger than my relationship
status, my friendships, and my life stage. I know that I serve a God
who cares deeply about my happiness and about my growth. I trust Him
with His timing, His promises, and His omnipotence—even when I don’t
understand it.

I also know there are far worse things than being the single friend
among marrieds. There are worse things than feeling like the odd one
out. And this is: Not having these people in my life. Losing these
cherished relationships. Choosing to focus on our differences and
therefore pushing away our similarities—all these would be so much
more painful, so much more disheartening, so much more unsettling than
dancing solo at all these weddings. Even during the slow songs.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

