http://ymi.today/2016/12/an-accident-nearly-took-my-life-but-grace-
saved-me/

An Accident Nearly Took My Life But Grace Saved Me

Author: by Contributor

Written By Xueying, Malaysia, originally in Traditional Chinese

On 20 August 2011, eight days after my 26th birthday, I was nearly
killed in a car accident.

That Saturday morning, I was driving around the outskirts of my
hometown, Ipoh, Malaysia, with a colleague. Suddenly, another car
coming from the opposite direction veered into our lane and collided
with us head-on, wrecking our car.

The driver, an elderly man, suffered minor injuries and was discharged
shortly. My colleague and I, on the other hand, were critically
injured. Both of us had to undergo surgery immediately. Tragically, my
colleague passed away that very night. I remained unconscious, with
multiple tubes inserted into my neck and wrist. A metal implant was
also inserted into my right arm.

When my parents heard about the accident, they rushed to the hospital.
When they saw the state I was in, they broke down. Every day after
that, they would go to the temple to pray for my recovery. During that
time, my relatives, friends and colleagues also visited me.

A week after the accident, I was transferred from the Intensive Care
Unit (ICU) to the general ward as there was insufficient space in the
ICU. Two months later, I was discharged; I was still unconscious.

For the first two months, I remained in a coma and was fed through a
feeding tube. Pastors and church members streamed in to visit me. They
held my hands and prayed fervently for me.

By the grace of God, I regained consciousness two months later. That,
however, was just the beginning of a long and challenging journey. Due
to injuries to my brain, my cognitive ability was severely impaired.
Although friends and relatives tried to talk to me, I was unable to
respond.

I had regressed to infant behavior. I had to re-learn simple things,
like drinking water. My father removed my feeding tube and my mother
tried to feed me with a milk bottle, coaxing me like a baby and saying
repeatedly, “Come, swallow, swallow . . .” Apparently, it took me a
minute just to swallow one mouthful.

Because the nerves on my left brain were so severely damaged, my
mobility was restricted. I was lying on my back all the time, and it
took me a lot of effort just to sit up.

Several months later, I started to walk again, supported by a pair of
crutches. I will never forget the tremendous difficulty this took—I
had to take a break every one or two steps, since it was too tiring to
move my body. Each day, I could manage only a few hundred steps.

It was utterly exhausting. Back then, I didn’t know that I could rely
on God, until a church friend passed me a Bible one day. She said to
me, “Xueying, try reading the Bible when you are able to read. You can
find answers to all your life questions and doubts in the Bible—true
answers.”

As a child, I used to attend Sunday school; I loved singing worship
songs. In university, I also attended church. However, although I knew
who Jesus was, I never bothered to develop a personal relationship
with Him. The only times I prayed were before exams or before the
exams results were announced.

But the accident made me wonder about God’s purposes. I needed to know
why I had to go through so much suffering in my life and why my loved
ones had to suffer along with me. I needed to know why I had to go
through so much suffering in my life and why my loved ones had to
suffer along with me. As such, while learning how to walk, I started
to read the Bible.

I remember the first time I read the Bible vividly. I was casually
flipping through the Bible and stumbled on this verse: “Therefore, if
anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come: The old has gone, the
new is here!” (2 Corinthians 5:17)

Instantly, my heart was lifted. This teaching by Jesus reinvigorated
me and filled me with hope—God loves me and I am His new creation!
From then on, I would tell myself whenever I felt like giving up,
“Don’t cry, don’t be discouraged. God will lead the way, just follow
Him in faith.”

In the five and a half years following my accident, I barely touched
any form of technology—this despite the fact that I was working as an
electrical engineer before my accident. Instead, I would read the
Bible voraciously every day, spending time to reflect on how to follow
God’s word.

During my recovery, I had five major falls—each caused
unbearable pain. The fifth time, I lost my balance in my own bedroom
and landed heavily. The scab on my left wrist scraped against the wall
and blood started to flow profusely. The pain was excruciating and I
sat on the floor because I was unable to get up from the floor on my
own. I closed my eyes tightly and cried out to God, “Please help me
Father, I’m in a lot of pain!”

At that moment, a song that I had learned more than 21 years ago came
to my mind: “Although I’m weak, God is strong”. This immediately
strengthened and comforted me. I reached out to grab some tissue to
wipe the blood off my wrist, and told myself not to be afraid and to
wait for my parents to come and help me. Ten minutes later, my father
walked past my room and saw me sitting on the floor. “Why are you
sitting on the floor, does your head hurt?” he asked. I could see the
look of pain on his face when his eyes landed on the blood-soaked
tissue on the floor beside me.

As he helped me up, I assured him by telling him my head did not
hurt—it was just my left wrist that hurt. I added, “Wow papa, you can
lift me up so quickly! You’re so strong!”

As I look back on this accident, I thank God for using it to change me
inside out. He has saved me from being the pessimist I used to be, and
rescued me from my dark thoughts. Now, I follow Him in the light and
give thanks for everything I have in life. I’ve since learned that
though there will always be difficulties in this life, with God I can
overcome them all.

To a person who has gone through a near death experience, I have come
to see that being able to live each day is nothing short of a miracle.
And having experienced God’s saving grace, I see how it is the gospel
that gives us the hope of living.

Coming from a village in Malaysia where most villagers are not
Christians, I am especially aware that it is the grace of God that has
enabled me to get to know Him. Therefore, I am making it a priority in
my life to learn more about Him and tell others about God so that many
people can get to know Him as their Lord and Savior. God’s word from
Galatians 6:9 reminds me to spread the gospel zealously. My parents
for instance, are not Christians, but have been opened to learning
more about God. It warms my heart when I see how interested they are
to hear the Bible stories.

A year ago on Christmas Eve, I testified about God’s goodness in
church in the presence of my parents. I shared about God’s saving
grace in my life and how He changed me. I compared my experience to
the process of the metamorphosis of a pupa that faces difficulty when
it breaks out of the cocoon. When it does, however, it emerges as a
beautiful butterfly.

More recently, I have managed to ditch the crutches and make it up to
the second floor of my church to attend service on my own feet. Praise
be to God!

It is my prayer that I will continue to be found faithful sharing the
gospel of Jesus, so that His word can light the way for others, just
as it has for me.

“We have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original
conviction firmly to the very end.”—Hebrews 3:14



