https://ymi.today/2017/12/tasting-gods-grace-through-unexpected-
challenges/

Tasting God’s Grace Through Unexpected Challenges

Author: by Contributor

Written by Rachel Moreland, USA

The year 2017 has been a rollercoaster for me. There have been plenty
of ups but also plenty of downs and unexpected twists and turns along
the way. So when I think back over these last 12 months, I can’t help
but smile and also breathe in sweet relief at the same time.

I made it through!

Despite all that life has thrown my way, God has been so good. So
kind. So faithful. Most importantly, God saw me through. Here are some
key lessons I’ve learned this 2017:



In this last year, I had to part ways with a company I was working
for. It was a painful process and it left me uncertain about my
future. It was a wake-up call, and I soon realized how much I had
placed my identity, my value, and my self-worth in my job title.

I was functioning like a product of our egotistical, consumerist, and
individualistic society. “What do you do?” became the most dreaded
question I was asked at flat parties and I found myself taking a big
sip of wine before answering with a half-hearted sarcastic remark.
Anything to cover up my shame.

However, this eye-opening experience gave me a renewed sense of worth.
I realized that my value was not dependent on what I do, but on Whom I
belong to. Embracing our identity as children of God is the most
freeing “epiphany” we will ever have. To be honest with you, I am
still exploring what it means to find my identity in God today, but I
am pleased to say that I no longer feel the need to read out my resume
to a complete stranger at a dinner party.



During the latter half of 2017, my anxiety disorder resurfaced and
reared its ugly head. Basic daily tasks like going to the grocery
store became increasingly difficult, and panic attacks became a far-
too-common occurrence.

As someone who has suffered anxiety throughout her adult years, I have
often asked God to remove my overwhelming feelings of worry and panic.
But I also know that healing very rarely takes place in an instant,
like a thunderbolt zapping you from heaven.

My road to wholeness has been a long, drawn out process, a journey of
learning how to relinquish control and trust the One who is bigger
than the problems I face. Had God given me a magic bullet to take away
my anxiety, I would never have had the opportunity to experience the
all-consuming love, grace and kindness of the Father.

To quote a sermon on anxiety by Christian author and speaker Joyce
Meyer, “If God doesn’t remove a problem from your life, then He will
give you the strength, patience and abilities to get through it. And
if He doesn’t deliver you from it, then there must be a lesson that
you need to learn through it.”

Living with chronic anxiety is teaching me how to really trust God
when things look pear-shaped, and how to give up the need to have all
the answers. Perhaps most importantly, I have learned that even if I
do not “feel” like God is in control, I can rest in knowing this
truth—that God is in control of all things, and that this truth is not
dependent upon my feelings.



How kind is God, that He repeatedly and without hesitation extends His
grace to us! He could, in an instant, teach us all there is to know
about this journey called life, but instead He is patient with His
children and leads us by the hand like a gentle father does with his
children.

As we see 2017 coming to a close, I hope your hearts will be filled
with peace, but most of all, I hope you will be filled with
grace—grace for one another and also for yourself. We can often be our
hardest critics. Embrace the love of God and know that no matter where
you find yourself along this journey, know that you are wholly and
fully loved by a gentle Father.

