http://ymi.today/2017/11/i-was-wrong-about-thanksgiving/

I Was Wrong About Thanksgiving

Author: by Contributor

Written by Karen Pimpo, USA

I used to think Thanksgiving was cute, like little handprint turkey
art projects from third graders. Thanksgiving was mildly entertaining,
like whatever football game is on TV when you fall asleep after too
much turkey.

But Thanksgiving, I thought, was not important or relevant or
meaningful. How could it be?

I’ve always been a little jaded about this particular holiday. A
national day of gratitude? Yeah, right. What good is giving thanks for
what we’ve got if we spend the very next day scrambling and fighting
for the best deals on stuff we don’t really need? Everyone knows that
Thanksgiving is really just an excuse to get a day off work. Maybe
we’d just be better off without it.

But I was wrong—and I’m so relieved. This year, I’ve learned that
Thanksgiving is really not about the traditions or the shopping or the
food. The spirit of gratitude it represents is essential to this life.
And when we take the time to gather in our homes and break bread and
remember blessings with one another, amazing things happen.

In October this year, a few close friends and I had our very first
“Friendsgiving”. Yes, it was a month early, and yes, most of us had
never made our own Thanksgiving meals before. But we are nothing if
not adventurous (and perhaps a little foolish). So we each committed
to bringing a dish. And this tiny gathering turned into the most
wonderful, eccentric, and heartwarming Thanksgiving meal—but not
because of the food.



After the meal, we sat on the couch and passed around popcorn kernels.
The game was that everybody had to list one thing per kernel for which
he or she was grateful. The first round of giving thanks was easy and
lighthearted, and then things started getting deep. We listed
blessings like the support of friends in difficult times, deep
conversations around unanswerable questions, and God’s faithfulness in
storms.

And that’s when our gathering really became thanksgiving. It was the
gratitude, not the amazing apple pie, that completed our celebration.
Sharing those blessings was a powerful experience, creating a bond
between us and encouraging our hearts and bringing us into God’s
presence with thanksgiving.

The “Friendsgiving” gratitude game gave me new eyes to see God’s daily
provision of things that I normally take for granted. Looking back on
the last year, I can see God’s hand throughout my life in ways I
couldn’t see in the moment— an overwhelming bill that is now a
testament to God’s provision. A scary tumor that is now a testament to
God’s healing power. The loss of a friend that is now a testament to
God’s sovereignty.

The circumstances we are in right now may not evoke songs of praise,
but we are encouraged to give thanks in all things (1 Thessalonians
5:18). Part of gratitude, I’ve learned, is trusting that God is still
present and working in the midst of times that are fearful, painful,
or lonely.

The Psalmist reminds us that gratitude and worship are what we were
created for. It is fitting for us to be grateful to the One who is
always true, trustworthy, just, and loving.

Let the godly sing for joy to the Lord; it is fitting for the pure to
praise him. Praise the Lord with melodies on the lyre; make music for
him on the ten-stringed harp. Sing a new song of praise to him; play
skillfully on the harp, and sing with joy. For the word of
the Lord holds true, and we can trust everything he does. He loves
whatever is just and good; the unfailing love of the Lord fills the
earth. (Psalm 33:1-5, NLT)

I was wrong about Thanksgiving, and my new awareness of gratitude is
bringing a fresh perspective to this season. Gratitude is powerful. It
moves us to action. It causes us to literally give thanks, but also to
give back, to give forward, to show someone else the generous
hospitality we have received. And Thanksgiving isn’t complete without
it.

I want this heart change to result in action—encouraging others,
serving wholeheartedly, praising my Creator. I was wrong about
Thanksgiving, and maybe you were, too, but we don’t have to be any
more.

