http://ymi.today/2015/06/thriving-in-a-single-parent-family/

Thriving in a Single-Parent Family

Author: by Amy Ji

My parents separated when my brother had just turned three and I was
going on four. I have no doubt the years following the divorce were
extremely tough on my mum, but I have no recollection of them as
painful years. Instead, I remember learning how to swim, how to ride a
bike, and even going to Disneyland.

Here was a woman who, despite the circumstances she was going through,
was determined to give us everything a child could ask for—and more.
My mum spared no effort to provide us with whatever she thought was
best, even if it came at a high personal cost. On top of her full-time
day job, she took on another job which required her to work on most
nights. As if that was not enough, she even volunteered at a nearby
church library one night every week, so that my brother and I could
enjoy the newest books and toys.

As I look back on the sacrifices my mum has made and how she brought
us up, I’ve come to realize that her secret to successful parenting
and living was really, no secret. In the early years after my dad
left, she hung huge verses written with my kiddy crayons all over the
walls of our home. Every day, as she walked past those verses, she
would read them out loudly, even before I learned how to read.

Some of these verses have since been etched onto my memory. One of
them is Jeremiah 29:11: “‘For I know the plans I have for you,’
declares the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to
give you hope and a future.’” Another is Romans 8:28: “And we know
that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who
have been called according to his purpose.”

Throughout my growing up years, I learnt of the trauma that some of my
friends from single-parent homes went through. One of them had a
depressed parent who would run away from home, leaving her alone at
night. Another was frequently beaten by her father who could not
handle his emotions after the divorce. These stories should have
resounded with me, but to be honest, I could never understand what
they were going through.

My mother might not have been home much to help me with my school work
or give me warm home-cooked meals, but she showed me by the way she
lived that God is real and His promises are true. My mother might not
have been home much to help me with my school work or give me warm
home-cooked meals, but she showed me by the way she lived that God is
real and His promises are true. I know Psalm 68:5 has proven true in
my experience. “A father to the fatherless, a defender of widows, is
God in his holy dwelling.”

Throughout my life, never once have my friends or teachers guessed
that I was from a single-parent home until I had to declare it on some
administrative form or submit the form for teacher-parent meetings.
Those who knew were often surprised and even bewildered that I came
from a broken family.

I might have grown up with one parent, but my family was far from
broken.

Photo credit: 藍川芥 aikawake / Foter / CC BY-NC-SA



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



