http://ymi.today/2016/02/to-all-single-christian-girls-theres-more-to-
life-than-finding-your-soulmate/

To All Single Christian Girls: There’s More to Life than Finding Your
Soulmate

Author: by Contributor

Written By Emilani Nababan, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

My dear friends,

Penning this letter brings back memories and emotions of my long,
eventful journey as a single woman. Although I was a believer, I felt
unloved by God. At many points, I struggled with low self-esteem and
feelings that I was not good enough.

Sure, I knew the psalmist’s prayer from Psalms 139 well enough. I
believed that God created me, and that I was “fearfully and
wonderfully made”—but that didn’t stop me from comparing my appearance
with that of other girls. It left me feeling lost and lousy about
myself. What made matters worse was the pressure coming from my
parents and extended family. I guess these are struggles any single
lady would face.

But it was also during this period of my life that I learned what it
really meant to live as a believer. Through regular fellowship with
believers, constant reading of God’s Word and prayer, God turned my
perspective on its head. One day, He gave me the often-quoted verse,
Jeremiah 29:11, “For I know the plans I have for you,” declares
the Lord, “plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you
hope and a future.” Although it was not directly related to my
predicament, it was as though God was using it to rebuke me over my
unbelief.

I thought about the many times I had questioned God about my
singlehood and the times I had doubted His power. Here was a God who
never forgot His wonderful plans for His people and His promise to
give them hope and a future as He worked all things in accordance to
His timing and wisdom.

This simple yet powerful truth brought me to my knees, and with tears
streaming down my face, I knelt down and asked God for His
forgiveness. I surrendered all my worries to Him and started praying
earnestly, trusting Him as the God of my life. I also realigned my
life’s purpose to Him. I came to the realization that God had knitted
me in my mother’s womb to accomplish His glorious purpose, that He
wanted me to do good works (Ephesians 2:10) and to make the most of my
life in service to Him. Life, I saw, was not simply about finding a
soulmate.

In light of my newfound discovery, these were the practical steps I
took:

Dear friends, looking for a soulmate is neither wrong nor easy. But
let’s not be so preoccupied by the search that we lose sight of the
glorious purpose God has for us. Let’s use this time of our lives to
bring glory to Him. Know that He is in control and He is working in
and through our lives to make something beautiful in His time.



Read “To All Single Christian Guys” here.

