http://ymi.today/2017/04/please-dont-jump-theres-hope/

Please don’t jump, there’s hope

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh, Singapore

I was just about to leave for work when a policeman knocked on my
door. “Sir, do you know of any elderly woman living along this floor?”

Behind him, a single stool stood next to the railing separating the
flats on my floor from the ground, 10 floors below. It didn’t belong
to my neighbor. Several policemen were stretching a white tape across
the narrow common corridor in front of me. It didn’t take much to
guess what had happened. In the old days, my housing estate was a
popular spot for suicides; in those days, few buildings were this
“tall”.

“Actually . . . most of the people here are elderly,” I told the cop.
Then my thoughts went to my immediate neighbor. I glanced at her
windows, just two feet from me. But to my relief, the policeman peeked
through, turned to me, and nodded. “No, she’s in there.”

Then, another thought. A neighbor a few doors down had been rather
depressed after suffering a disability. But I spotted his door opening
in the distance, as policemen went down the row, knocking on door
after door. His thin hands emerged. Another wave of relief.

The policeman then asked me if I minded looking at a picture of her
face, to see if I recognized her. I didn’t.

The woman had probably come from another block in the estate, and
likely planned this in advance. She had brought her own stool, and had
chosen to jump from the quietest stretch of corridor; the other part
faced another block, and she would have been spotted. My block was
also one of the quietest ones in the neighborhood.

There was little else I could do. I walked out of my home, glancing
over the railing along the way to take in the sight of a pitiful
covered bundle lying on a concrete parapet, 10 floors below.

I nodded to the policeman, ducked under the crime-scene tape, and took
a lift to the ground. As I walked out of the estate, I was engulfed by
a wave of sadness. I didn’t know the woman, but my heart went out to
her. In an ageing estate populated mostly by elderly folk, it wasn’t
difficult to guess why she had dragged a stool to my block of flats,
taken the lift to the highest floor, climbed onto it, and hurled
herself over the railing.

Perhaps she didn’t have a family. Perhaps she wasn’t close to them or
felt abandoned. Perhaps she was told about an incurable disease.
Perhaps she felt that she had nothing left to live for. No love, no
purpose . . . only loneliness and the certain prospect of years of
emptiness stretching ahead. Nothing but hopelessness.

Nothing left to live for. No hope.

Death would have seemed to be the only escape, the only relief.

If only my wife or I had happened to come out the door when she was
there. We could have stopped her. If only we—or someone—had a chance
to tell her: Please, don’t jump. There’s hope.

Hope. Sometimes, it’s the only reason to go on living. Hope.
Sometimes, it’s the only reason to go on living. When you’ve lost
everything, and there’s nothing left to look forward to. When nothing
is going right, and things don’t look as if they’re ever going to get
any better.

What stops us from taking the only way out? What stops us from going
to the highest building, from taking a handful of sleeping pills?

Hope. Hope that somehow, somewhere, things may eventually get better.
Hope that amid the loneliness, there’s someone out there who still
cares for us and who will tell us, “Hey, you mean a lot to me. Don’t
go, I need you.” Hope that in the desperation of our current
situation, someone will come along to stretch out a helping hand, give
us a comforting hug, and say, “Don’t worry, I’m here with you. I’ll
walk with you.”

Only one person can give us this hope. Only one person can promise us
that he’ll be there with us, every step of the way. Only one person
can keep up that promise, because he will never be too busy to listen
to us. Only one person will never fail us. Only one person could say
to us with utmost confidence, “Don’t worry, I’m in control. I know
your situation, and I know what to do. I know what you need.”

That person is Jesus. Having once lived as a man, He knows exactly how
we feel. Our depression. Our loneliness. Our hopelessness. As the Son
of God, He has the ultimate power to handle our situation. He knows
what comfort and encouragement we need, and He will be able to give it
to us. Some of us will still have to live through our challenging
circumstances, but we’ll have the complete assurance that He’s walking
alongside us—every day, every hour, every minute. And, the most
important of all, we’ll be able to go on in life with this knowledge:
Jesus loves me. I matter to him. I mean the world to him—so much so
that He died to save my soul. He has a purpose for me. He placed me
here for a reason. He wants me to live for him.

When there’s absolutely nothing left to live for, when we’ve lost
everything, we still have one thing. Jesus gives us hope. Hope to
live. Hope to believe.

If you’re feeling hopeless, if you’ve given up on life, if you’ve
taken a stool and are heading for the top floor of a block near you,
stop. Please stop. There’s someone out there who loves you. Jesus
loves you.

