http://ymi.today/2016/09/i-have-depression-and-this-is-what-i-want-
you-to-know/

I Have Depression and This Is What I Want You to Know

Author: by Wendy Wong

I never thought that I would have depression. It seemed like something
only strangers had. Even when a close friend of mine struggled with
depression a few years ago, I couldn’t relate to what she was going
through. I just thought of it as a really low period some people had
and would eventually get out of, if only they tried hard enough.

Depression was a faraway concept, and “depressed” was a word I used
casually when I felt particularly sad. I didn’t understand
depression—until it happened to me.

According to the Singapore Mental Health Study conducted in 2010,
major depressive disorder is ranked as the most common mental illness,
with one in 17 people in Singapore suffering from it at one point or
another in their lives.

But reading statistics or stories on mental health issues is one
thing; experiencing and living with it is another.

For me, depression was—and is—a heavy cloud hovering above my head, a
coldness creeping in my heart, a veil darkening my sight. It’s days of
moving slowly and numbly, nights of overflowing tears and thoughts.
It’s lashing out against my family while pretending to act like a
normal functioning human being in school, in church, and outside. It’s
sobbing uncontrollably one moment and feeling nothing at all at
another. It’s thinking to myself that I’m getting better one day, and
completely breaking down the next.

It’s been three months since I found out what I was going through had
a name.

I have depression, and this is what I want you to know.

There’s so much stigma surrounding mental disorders that when I first
started feeling this way, I felt confused and guilty. Weren’t
Christians supposed to be happy all the time? If I had depression, did
that mean I was doing something wrong? Was having depression some sort
of sin?

An article I came across in Christianity Today said: “While spiritual
problems—like habitual or unconfessed sin, lack of faith, or, in rare
cases, demonic attack—certainly can trigger depression, those things
are often the result of depression, not the cause.”

Don’t beat yourself up for having depression, because it is not your
fault. What you’re going through is a mental illness that could stem
from a myriad of potential causes, such as genetic vulnerability,
significant life events, personal problems, or illnesses. Just as you
wouldn’t blame spiritual problems for a fever or a broken leg, you
shouldn’t automatically assume the same for depression or any other
mental illness.

In my case, my depression was triggered by a particular experience I
had undergone.

However, if you do think that your depression may have spiritual
causes, talk to your pastor or Christian counselor.

There were many nights when I felt utterly alone and wretched. There
were many occasions when the sadness felt too heavy for my shoulders
to bear, and fleeting thoughts of death would cross my mind. I felt
like I was wasting away, like my life had been drained of all color
and that there was nothing else for me to cling onto.

A few weeks ago, the preacher at my church wrapped up his sermon with
one sentence which has stuck in my head since, and which has given me
much comfort: God is with us and is for us.

Even though you may feel that everything is meaningless right now,
remember that God is, has been, and always will be sovereign,
omniscient, powerful, gracious, merciful, loving, kind, and good.

Depression cannot separate you from the love of God, even if you feel
numb to it (Romans 8:38-39). Though the nights are long and filled
with mourning, remember that joy comes with the morning (Psalm 30:5).
He is the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in
all our affliction (2 Corinthians 1:3).

God wants to help you. He is on your side in this battle. He sustains
and strengthens you. All you need to do is to call upon His name and
cling onto Him.

And one way of remembering these precious truths of God is by
reminding yourself of them daily—and even more so as you battle with
thoughts and feelings of depression.

It can be difficult to turn to God, especially when the weight of
depression weighs so heavily upon you that opening the Bible or even
uttering a prayer feels like a chore. I know, because I’ve felt that
way—and sometimes still do.

My mistake was to turn to other lesser means of comforting myself,
which would only numb me temporarily without actually filling the
aching hole in my heart.

Yet God does wonders with us when we choose to turn to Him. His Word
has comforted me greatly in this season—especially the Psalms, which I
used to find boring. But now, in the midst of my tears, I can finally
empathize with the psalmists who wrote them when they were in great
anguish and even on the brink of death. There are many psalms which
tell of the psalmists’ suffering and hurt, of turning their eyes to
God, of remembering His faithfulness and steadfast love, and of being
delivered by his mighty Hand (Psalm 23, 30, 31, 62, 143).

I wrote down verses which God used to speak peace into my heart that
surpassed all understanding, and would take them out and read them
aloud to myself when I felt the shadows of depression looming. I also
listened to worship songs which centered on Christ’s character as my
cornerstone. I’m especially thankful for American Christian musician
Steffany Gretzinger’s album, The Undoing, which spoke to me in many
ways.

It can take effort to look outwards and upwards at God. But it is only
Him alone who can give us the peace and comfort that we so desperately
seek and need.

At first I couldn’t articulate what exactly I was feeling or going
through. All I knew was that I was inexplicably crying, almost
mourning, over a deep sadness that wasn’t going away. I have always
been close to my family, especially my parents, but I found that I
couldn’t and didn’t know how to tell them what was happening to me.

I reached out and told my close friends, a mentor from church and my
aunt, many of whom prayed along with me. There were times when I was
taking things badly and God used these sisters to share with me Bible
verses, a song or words of encouragement which I really needed to hear
at that time.

Finally, I began to see a Christian counselor. Over the past two
months, she’s been helping me to work through issues which may have
triggered my depression.

It’s important to reach out to trusted friends and relatives who can
support you in your time of need. If necessary, you may also want to
consider seeing a Christian counselor or a doctor if your depression
persists. I know how scary it can be to tell your loved ones, and to
take that step to speak to a professional, but I’m so grateful that I
did. Because without their support, I know that I would still be in a
very bad place.

Since then, in God’s goodness and faithfulness, He has been lifting
the fog of my depression, little by little. In this difficult and dark
season, He has been my light, my strength and my song. He’s placed
people in my life who have shown me the love of Christ through their
encouragement, support and prayers. Most importantly, in the process
He’s been giving me a sweeter and deeper appreciation of who He is,
and gently promising me that “in all things God works for the good of
those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose”
(Romans 8:28).

For that, I give Him thanks.

I want you to know that you are not and never will be alone. You are
loved as a child of God, who has been, is, and always will be with you
and for you. Rest and be still in His love, dear brother and sister.

Where can I go from your Spirit? Where can I flee from your presence?
If I go up to the heavens, you are there; if I make my bed in the
depths, you are there. If I rise on the wings of the dawn, if I settle
on the far side of the sea, even there your hand will guide me, your
right hand will hold me fast. If I say, “Surely the darkness will hide
me and the light become night around me,” even the darkness will not
be dark to you; the night will shine like the day, for darkness is as
light to you. — Psalm 139:7-12



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



