http://ymi.today/2016/01/5-signs-that-we-are-preoccupied-with-
ourselves/

5 Signs that We are Preoccupied with Ourselves

Author: by Alwin Thomas

Written By Alwin Thomas, Singapore

Let’s just be honest here: We’ve all got some narcissistic tendencies.
No one’s exempt. That being said, I don’t mean to offend anyone with
the points below; hopefully, they serve as useful indicators to help
us identify these tendencies and nip them in the bud.

1. I Am Reading This Article

That’s right. If you’re reading this article right now, you’re
probably someone who has some level of self-absorption. You want to
know if you’re too obsessed and occupied with yourself. That’s not
entirely a bad thing, though. The problem comes when we are concerned
about our own well-being only, sometimes even at the expense of
others. The problem comes when we are concerned about our own well-
being only, sometimes even at the expense of others.

Instead of being self-absorbed, psychologists say it is more
beneficial to be self-aware—where we understand the inner motivations
and desires which shape our behavior and actions. Self-absorption can
lead to dissatisfaction, whereas self-awareness causes us to be
introspective; it prompts us to consider how we can change our
negative attitudes and live more enriching, fulfilling lives that not
only benefit ourselves, but also others in the process.

2. I Find Myself Criticizing Others Very Often

It is biblical to encourage and spur other people on, especially those
closest to us. We are told in 1 Thessalonians 5:11 to “encourage one
another and build each other up, just as in fact you are doing.”

But have you ever felt a strong need to correct someone, to the point
that you’re frustrated if: One, you are unable to communicate it to
them; or Two, they don’t heed your advice or just can’t seem to make
sense of it? If your answer is yes to either, then you might be
operating from some kind of unrealistic standard, first for yourself,
then for the people around you. If you constantly feel frustrated with
others, or realize that your friends want less and less to do with
you, these are warning signs.

There was a time in my life when I was completely dissatisfied with
everyone I knew. No matter how much time, concern, or affection my
friends showed me, I was always finding some new way to put them on a
guilt trip and make them feel that they were selfish and did not care
for me.

What should we do? We need to remember that all of us are still in the
process of becoming better, by a process called “sanctification”.
Jesus Himself displayed great patience and love to those who were
criticized or hated by society, such as the tax collectors and the
prostitutes. While He did not condone their behavior, He corrected
them gently and gave them room and time to make amends.

Similarly, we could learn to be patient and forgive not only our
friends for their moments of folly, but also ourselves as we are being
transformed from the inside. The Bible says: “So we do not lose heart.
Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed
day by day.” (2 Corinthians 4:16)

3. I’m Always Worrying Over Improving Myself

Are there traits in your life that you really can’t stand, but no
matter how much you try to “fix” yourself, you find yourself
inevitably lapsing back into the same habits? For example, are you
trying to change your lack of discipline, but can’t seem to avoid
procrastinating and wasting time?

We may make a resolution to change our lives, and see things seem to
get better for a while. But within a few weeks, or months, we find
that the old habits are back, and end up disappointed, angry, and
upset with ourselves.

May I suggest that it’s because we’re focusing too much on ourselves,
and trying to do everything on our own? We are always in a turmoil
because we don’t let go; we don’t really believe that God is big
enough to settle our problems, and we don’t really trust that He will.

We’re using our own might to change ourselves—no wonder we keep
failing! Let’s trust in God and let Him take over.

4. I Feel Like I’m Always Talking

Have you ever paused for a moment in a conversation and suddenly
realized that you were the only one talking? Well, maybe it’s because
you haven’t stopped talking! Relationships are all about two-way
communication.

If we deliberately shift the attention from ourselves and make the
effort to listen to others, we’ll learn to care for the well-being of
others. We would learn from people’s experiences and avoid the same
mistakes in our lives. There is great wisdom in the Turkish proverb,
“If speaking is silver, then listening is gold”. Could it be that even
though you’ve been friends with those around you for a long time, you
don’t actually know what they are like, or even what they like?

Sometimes, this may be true in our relationship with God too. We spend
all our time going to Him with our prayers, our needs, and our
concerns. But have we ever paused to consider what He has to say to
us?

5. I Have A Fear Of Building Real Connections

For many years, I struggled with being able to care for others truly
and sincerely. When I related to people around me, even those whom I
love, I was always thinking of how to ensure that what I did would be
reciprocated. How could I serve him so that he would always be
faithful to me? What could I buy for her so that she would love me
even more? And even: What could I do for God so that He would never
leave or forsake me?

Eventually, I found myself disappointed when people didn’t respond the
way I wanted them to, and when they failed to meet my unrealistic and
selfish expectations. For a long time, I could not see a way out—until
I realized that I had to first understand what being in a relationship
actually meant. And the lesson came from the first and most important
relationship in my life: my relationship with God.

The first thing I learned was that His love for us was unconditional.
God loved us even before we existed. And despite all the times we’ve
run away from Him and rebelled against Him, He has never ceased to
love us for who we are. When I understood this, I began to learn to
love others—just the way they were. It was not about what they could
do for me, or even what would happen if they left me, but it was about
how God wanted me to love the people He loved, unconditionally and
selflessly. Relationships are not transactional exchanges.



Alwin loves deep and meaningful conversations. That love is rivaled
with his affection for cats and most things fruffy. Yes, fruffy. He
firmly believes that God is ever present, even though some times life
can get really tough. He also believes that music is an important part
of life, for it is able to express what often is left unspoken.
Oooooh, deep.



