http://ymi.today/2015/10/why-do-we-crave-and-struggle-to-achieve-
success/

Why Do We Crave and Struggle to Achieve Success?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lim AL

Being involved in youth outreach and ministry for the last 23 years,
AL had the privilege to befriend and witness the growth of some youths
into adulthood. One constant challenge she faces is to rethink all of
life from the gospel’s perspective and to encourage young people to do
so.

Recently, I came across this lament by a very talented young person on
his blog: “The reason why I hate attending lessons and going to school
is that you are inherently born with lower IQ, so no matter how much
you work, people with higher IQ will still win you.”

I believe many of us can identify with this struggle. No matter how
hard we work—or how talented we believe ourselves to be—it seems that
there will be someone who will surpass our abilities or achievements.
To make matters worse, the societies we live in are constantly
measuring our attainment of success. In this process, individuals are
ranked against each other. As a result, success results in
discrimination because some are “better” than others. Inequality is
perpetuated because those who are more “talented” are more highly
rewarded.

The pressure to succeed is an unavoidable reality. I believe man has
an insatiable craving for success because we are really looking for
significance, satisfaction, and security. Success establishes our
significance or value in society, which brings personal satisfaction.
It also builds up a sense of security, because we know we are of
value. How many of us do not want significance, satisfaction, and
security?

But craving success is one thing; achieving it is another. The young
man’s blog entry is a reminder that many of us face frustrations in
our efforts to attain success. Why is this so? Why do we struggle to
succeed? Consider these challenges:

1. We have different starting points. Intelligence, looks, and talents
are unequally distributed from birth, so those who have the qualities
that are prized by society are likely to have a head start. American
fashion model Cameron Russell, who has made it big on the runway and
in the fashion industry, has acknowledged that her success was
bolstered by her win in the “genetic lottery”. She had the physical
attributes that were highly sought after—tall, pretty, and graceful.

2. There are different definitions of success. Where and when you are
born can affect what you need to be or do to be successful. In
Singapore (where I live), for example, society tends to reward
academic achievements. The education system favors early bloomers and
examination-savvy students, while those who are less academically
inclined and unable to excel in exams are more likely to face greater
challenges in employment.

3. We have different opportunities to pursue success. People from
privileged backgrounds are more likely to have the means and
connections to succeed. Successful personalities like Microsoft
founder Bill Gates, investor Warren Buffet, pop idol JJ Lim and
Olympic Swimming medallist Michael Phelps, for instance, came from
privileged homes where they enjoyed strong parental support as well as
material resources to develop their natural talents. Of course there
are “rags to riches” stories, but today, these appear to be the
exception rather than the rule.

So if success is so difficult to achieve, who or what can bring us
lasting significance, satisfaction, and security? Many of us look for
these things in people, possessions, and positions. But can we find
the answer in a relationship with a significant other, in being
appointed CEO of a big company, or in earning our first million
dollars at the age of 30?

People, possessions, and positions do bring significance, satisfaction
and security. They are blessings from the Lord to be enjoyed. But it
is the gospel that offers us the ultimate answer to the 3 S’s. No
other person can fully satisfy these needs but our loving Creator
alone:

1. Our significance in Christ does not depend on us. Ephesians 1:4-5
tells us that God, in His sovereignty and love, chose us before the
creation of the world to be made “holy and blameless” in his sight. We
are valued by God because of His grace and will alone, and not because
of our talents or efforts.

2. True satisfaction is to be found in a relationship with God. God’s
love gives us satisfaction that surpasses that which we can find in
earthly relationships. The extent of His love was displayed when He
sent His son, Jesus, to die on the cross for us while we were still
sinners (Romans 5:8). God’s sacrificial and faithful love fulfills our
deepest longing.

3. True security comes from an eternal relationship with God. Not only
God is eternal, but He has also promised us eternal life, which means
we can enjoy our relationship with Him forever. This gives us true
security, since this relationship will never end.

Blaise Pascal, the French mathematician, physicist, and inventor was
known for his famous saying, “There is a God-shaped vacuum in every
man’s heart”. He highlighted that man’s craving and helplessness
showed that “there was once in man a true happiness”. Man tries to
fill the emptiness “with everything around him”, but nothing works.
Why? Because “this infinite abyss can be filled only with an infinite
and immutable object; in other words by God himself”.

So what perspective of success should a Christian take? The Bible
shows us how we should understand success:

1. Success is ultimately a blessing from God. It is God who bestows us
with talents, and provides us with resources and opportunities. We are
to enjoy them, but we are not to forget who is the source of our
success. The Babylonian king, Nebuchadnezzar, learnt this lesson the
hard way. Daniel 4:28-37 records how the king was brought down low
when he basked in his own abilities. He was reminded that “the Most
High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone
he wishes.”

2. Success does not save us from death. James 4:13-15 reminds us that
our lives are like “a mist that appears for a little while and then
vanishes”. Success is temporary; we will still die one day. This truth
was brought home to me when one of my best friends developed
asphyxiation on a vacation and passed away within minutes. She had no
medical condition and was at her prime in many ways—she had a
wonderful marriage, an adorable son, a lovely new home, a new position
as head of a large organization, and was an active, well-regarded
member of a church ministry.

3. Success should not distract us from seeking God’s kingdom. In Luke
12:13-21, Jesus tells a parable of the rich man who focuses on
building a bigger barn to store his crops—only to be told that he
would die that very night. Jesus then tells His disciples to focus on
storing up treasures up in heaven instead, and “provide purses for
yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will
never fail, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys” (Luke
12:33). Let us not be distracted by the love of money and success, and
seek to do God’s will and His kingdom.

Do you know and enjoy true success?



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Success“

