http://ymi.today/2017/11/lessons-from-a-shooting-tragedy/

Lessons From A Shooting Tragedy

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jonathan Hayashi, USA

August 19, 2013, began like any other Monday at Uptown Baptist Church
in Chicago, USA. As usual, I handled routine administrative tasks and
worked on my sermon for the evening service at our soup kitchen
ministry. The church employees were in the office working and
chatting.

No one knew it would become a day marked by tragedy.

At 5:00 p.m., we welcomed 150 people from the streets for our first
service. For our second service at 5:45 p.m., we had approximately 100
people in the pews waiting for the sermon. I got into the pulpit and
began preaching.

At 6:00 p.m. we heard, “Bang! Bang! Bang!” The twenty-odd bangs
sounded like firecrackers. I turned around and said, “It’s just
fireworks folks. Don’t worry. Have a seat.”

One of our deacons corrected me, saying, “No, I know that was not
fireworks. It was too loud for fireworks and it was real close.”

I could almost feel the tension in the air, and the noise shook me to
the very core. Adrenaline rushed through my veins and my heart was
pounding. I rushed to the church steps and burst through the doors.

Chaos. It looked like a battlefield. People running in every
direction. Children screaming and howling. Shattered glass. Bullet
shells on the ground. People fighting and yelling. It was a drive-by
shooting.

I immediately saw that there were two young men on the ground at the
steps of our church. One was lying face down on the ground in a pool
of blood. The other had multiple bullet holes in him.

A man who had been in our first service rushed up to me and said,
“Pastor, I just got shot in the legs.” Another man from our first
service had a gunshot in his thigh and one other had been shot in the
wrist.

I dialed 911, the emergency number. “My name is Jonathan Hayashi. We
had a shooting at 1011 West Wilson Ave . . . No security officer
present. One man down on the ground. Description of the man . . . ” As
I explained, two police vehicles came from the south and an ambulance
came from west of Wilson. Police officers were running across the
streets, and yellow tape was put around the cross walk to secure the
area. I stood there in silence, not knowing what to do in the midst of
the tragedy that took place at our church steps.

A 21-year-old boy was dead with a baseball-sized bullet hole in his
head. I saw his brain burst out like Jell-o.

Why, God?

As I contemplated the incident, I realize I could easily have been one
of them. I still vividly recall my days in the gang and that fateful
day I found out my friend Asagiri had died at the age of 18 because of
gang activity. If I had stayed in the gang instead of meeting Christ,
that could very well have been me.

Amid the ongoing physical threats and challenges my family and I face,
these are two key reflections I’ve had since that shooting tragedy
which spur me on to keep sharing Christ:



God created us in His image and loved us even before the foundation of
the earth (Genesis 1, Psalm 139, Ephesians 1). He loved us so much
that He sent His Son to die the death you and I deserve—shedding His
blood for us and taking on His father’s wrath on that cross in our
place. His death conquered the enemy—sin and death itself—so whoever
believes in Him shall never perish, but have everlasting life.

That is the gospel. The gospel begins with God’s love, is demonstrated
through the cross and the empty tomb, and results in eternal life for
those who believe.

Unfortunately, we sometimes unconsciously—or not—decide in our minds
who “deserves” to be saved, and like Jonah, run from those who make us
feel uncomfortable. Unfortunately, we sometimes unconsciously—or
not—decide in our minds who “deserves” to be saved, and like Jonah,
run from those who make us feel uncomfortable.

But God doesn’t just love people like us; He loves the entire world
(John 3:16). Are we aware of the many people who do not know how much
God loves them? A lot of people living right beside us?



The message of biblical Christianity is not “God loves me, period,” as
if we were the object of our own faith. The message of biblical
Christianity is “God loves me so that I might make Him—His way, His
salvation, His glory, and His greatness—known among all nations.” God
is the object of our faith, and Christianity centers around Him. “We
are not the end of the gospel; God is,” says David Platt, President of
the International Mission Board and the author of Radical.

God’s love should compel us to act. The scripture says, “Therefore go
make disciples of all nations . . . ” (Matt. 28:19-20)

We don’t have to start a huge ministry, new organization, new
initiative, incredible book, or new strategy. It starts with
remembering what is at stake for those around us, and using whatever
skills God has given us to show Him to the world.

We are called to be the hands and feet of Jesus. Let’s take a leaf out
of Evangelist Dwight L. Moody’s book. It’s been written that he was
one of the few that went into the worst district of Chicago, the
Sands, also known as “Little Hell” to save souls.

In fact, it is precisely because of my experience with gang life and
seeing young boys and girls running around killing each other, that my
wife and I are convicted to serve where we’re at. We’ve since moved to
Greater St. Louis where the crime rate is worse than Chicago. But I
firmly believe that urban cities such as Chicago and St. Louis are
excellent places for gospel outreach to the broken, needy, and
perishing sinners.

My mission is to love these people who desperately need Jesus and be
prepared to lay down my life just as Jesus did for me on the cross.

So, don’t waste this life. We don’t know how long we’ve got. Let’s
spend our lives making His love known among the people. We’re not
learning this for ourselves, but the people around us.

