https://ymi.today/2017/12/when-youre-forced-to-give-control-to-god/

When You’re Forced to Give Control to God

Author: by YMI

Written By Chelsie Washington, USA

Control has always been something I’ve struggled with in a very subtle
way. I may not always show that I want to control a situation, but I
can sometimes make myself physically sick when things don’t go my way.
Whenever thoughts of a situation going awry arise, my heart begins to
race and my stomach starts to hurt.

Deep down, I know it’s not good to bring myself to worry as such, but
of course that’s easier said than done. With these control issues
comes my need to plan. I love to plan. I may not be the best at it,
but as long as I have a good idea of what is to come, I am able to
sleep better at night.

There’s an old saying that goes something like, “If you want to make
God laugh, tell him your plans.” I never really thought about how it
relates to my life—it’s so easy to say, “Yeah, I know that I need to
live more in the now and trust that God has my back now and in the
future”—until I received the ultimate test of faith.

When my son was one month old, we found out that he had a heart defect
that required surgery. Hearing the cardiologist say this made me feel
like I was having an out-of-body experience. As cliché as it may
sound, I kept thinking it was a dream. How could my healthy-looking
child need to have surgery at such a young age? After all, we brought
him into the emergency room for a breathing issue only because we
thought he had a cold.

The initial news and the sense of uncertainty brought me to tears. But
whenever I had to tell anyone about it or give updates on the
situation, I made sure to take a deep breath and remain as calm as
possible. On the surface, I looked and sounded peaceful. I could even
see people look at me as if they were wondering how I could remain so
calm.

The truth was that on the inside, I was running around frantically
wondering what would come of all this. Was Wade going to make it
through? Would he have health problems the rest of his life? Would he
get to be a normal kid? I also knew, though, that to be frantic would
be a disservice not only to myself, but to everyone around me. I
wasn’t the only one who loved my son. I had to make sure that I
remained calm so that others who loved him could also learn of his
progress.

In this most challenging moment of my life, God saw me and told me not
to worry. He told me to rely on Him and He would handle it all. In
this most challenging moment of my life, God saw me and told me not to
worry. He told me to rely on Him and He would handle it all. This was
further confirmed during a conversation I had with my son the day
before his first surgery. Throughout this whole experience, I had
tried to make a point to let him know how strong he was and that it
was all going to be okay. But on this day, after saying, “You’re going
to be okay,” my son mumbled the word “Okay.” It may sound crazy for a
baby to say actual words at such a young age, let alone understand
when to say it, but I believe that God was talking through him to
assure me that things were going to turn out well.

After the operations—he wound up having two in two days—my son lost
his voice and the personality I had grown to love over the first month
of his life. While I was happy that the worst was over, I was also sad
that the process to get my boy back to normal was dragging. I recall
one night during our stay at the hospital when I was feeling
especially down. For a month, I had been getting used to motherhood
and this child, and now everything was different. With tears streaming
down my face, I prayed long and hard for God to restore my boy to
normalcy and to keep him going in the right direction on the path to
recovery.

The Bible says in 1 John 5:15 that “if we know that he hears
us—whatever we ask—we know that we have what we asked of him”.
Obviously, God heard those cries in the middle of the night because
the next day, I began to see a change for the better in my boy’s
recovery. Up until that point, even though the doctors told me that he
was doing great, he still didn’t look or act like the same boy I had
grown to love because of the medication he was on. He was even losing
weight. But after that night of my crying and praying, Wade began to
be more like himself. Soon, a week after his operations, he was moved
to the recovery floor. After a couple of days, he was discharged and
sent home. We had our boy back!

In a situation like this, it would have been easy for me to place
blame on something or someone. It would have been easy to panic and
let my stress and anxiety get the best of me, and to lash out at
people out of fear and sadness. It would have been easy to take
matters into my own hands to try to stay in control when, in reality,
I had no control at all. This was the first time in my life when I
felt completely powerless in a situation. No amount of planning for
parenthood could have prepared me for something like this.

But I believe God brought me to and through this situation to remind
me who’s really in control of my life and the lives around me,
including my son’s. Today, my son is a healthy, funny, talkative, and
adventurous one-year-old. At his most recent appointment with the
cardiologist, we were told that we didn’t have to go back until the
next year. It’s hard to believe that just over a year ago, he was a
tiny, helpless baby in the hospital. I feel truly blessed to be a
steward over such a life as his.

Faith means relinquishing control and understanding that God will
never leave us. When we turn to God for all things, He will make sure
we have what we need to make it through. So let go and let God do what
He does best.

