http://ymi.today/2017/09/the-beauty-of-broken/

The Beauty of Broken

Author: by Contributor

Written By Elisa Morgan

Elisa Morgan is a speaker and the author of The Beauty of Broken and
Hello, Beauty Full. A graduate of Denver Seminary (MDiv), she served
for twenty years as the CEO of MOPS International and now is President
Emerita. Along with Mart DeHaan and Bill Crowder, she co-hosts the
daily syndicated radio program, “Discover the Word”
(www.discovertheword.org). Connect with Elisa at www.elisamorgan.com.



Most of us don’t want to talk about the not-so-pretty stuff of life.
We’d rather focus on loveliness. Hued sunsets. Bursting flowers. Downy
ducklings and fluffy lambs. Holidays. But I’ve discovered a beauty
that God brings in the unseemly, unexpected, broken things. He brings
beauty into broken relationships, shattered dreams and painful
realities.

I come from a broken family. When I was five, my father sat in a white
easy chair in his home office and beckoned me to his lap. He looked
into my eyes and said, “Elisa, I’ve decided I don’t love your mother
any more. We are getting a divorce.”

My family broke and I wondered how I could fix it.

My broken family – my mother, sister, brother and I – moved across the
continent where my days started with the sound of my mother’s alarm
down the hall in our ranch-style home. I pushed back the covers and
padded into the kitchen where I grabbed a glass, plunked in some ice
cubes and poured Coca Cola over it. With a handful of chocolate chip
cookies from the cookie jar, I made my way down the hall to my
mother’s bedroom. There I placed “breakfast” on her nightstand, turned
off the alarm and began the process of getting her up and ready for
work. As a single mom, she needed to work and it was my daily job to
wake her up. My mother struggled with alcohol.

My mother broke. I wondered what I could do to fix her.

When I had a chance as a grownup to start fresh, I determined it was
my responsibility to make an unbroken family. After all, I had become
a Christian as a teenager, had been involved in ministry, even gone to
seminary, where I met and later married my husband. Precious, stable,
rock of a man. I honestly believed that if I implemented “perfect
family values,” then I would have a perfect family.

Problem is, I’m broken. Everybody is. Even God’s family was broken
Problem is, I’m broken. Everybody is. Even God’s family was broken –
beginning with Adam and Eve and moving forward to you and me. No
matter what we do, we all end up in broken families. In one way or
another.

There’s no such thing as a perfect family. Instead of fighting this
reality – and failing – God invites us to embrace it. And to see the
beauty he brings in the broken.

I come from a broken family. And despite my very best attempts to
produce a formulaically perfect Christian family in my second—the
reality is that I still come from a broken family. We are messy –
gooey in the middle – and I love my family more than I ever thought
possible, brokenness and all. I love who they are and I love who they
have made me to be.

I’ve come to discover that God offers hope in the form of “broken
family values”—values like commitment, humility, courage, reality,
relinquishment, diversity, partnership, faith, love, respect,
forgiveness and thankfulness. He understands that no one is perfect.
He knows the unique journeys of loved ones. He gets it that abnormal
is actually pretty normal. That people mess up and yet are worthy of
respect and love and are never—ever—without hope. God holds each
family close, crying with his wounded children, tenderly assembling
and reassembling fallen fragments, creating us into better versions of
ourselves.

God doesn’t sweep the broken up into a dustpan and discard it. In
order to reach the broken in our world, God himself broke, allowing
his own Son to die a broken death on a cross for us. “But he was
pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; the
punishment that brought us peace was on him, and by his wounds we are
healed” (Isaiah 3:5). God brings beauty in the broken. God loves the
broken. God uses the broken.

What if we move away from the myth of the perfect family and toward
the reality of our beautifully broken ones? Might we then breathe air
clean of the stench of shame and saturated with the grace of God? And
might others find in us, not the exhausting chasing of some impossible
dream but fresh hope for the real life they are living? A life where
Jesus comes, in a broken body, to provide the beauty of healing?

I come from a broken family. I still come from a broken family. And
I’m pretty sure I’m not alone. I’m pretty sure that my story is likely
yours too.





Click here to order “The Beauty of Broken”.

