http://ymi.today/2017/01/what-does-day-to-day-work-have-to-do-with-
god/

What does day-to-day work have to do with God?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Daniel Gordon Ang, Indonesia

One and a half years ago, I stepped into Harvard University as a
bright-eyed graduate student in physics. My first few months were some
of the most eventful moments in my life.

Though I was still taking courses, attending lectures, and doing
problem sets like in my college days, I no longer felt that I was just
preparing for something in the future. Instead, I felt that I was now
working.

I spent my time doing things expected of a professional physicist:
thinking about physics, writing computer codes, assembling homemade
lasers, machining metal parts in the machine shop, and so on. Doing
these tasks involved learning many new skills and working with amazing
new people.

But while learning new things was always interesting, my initial
excitement was gradually tempered by the discovery that the day-to-day
work was often unremarkable. The majority of the problems I had to
deal with were mundane, tedious, or both. Research projects often got
significantly delayed due to unexpected technical glitches or plain
old bureaucratic or logistical hurdles.

As I chugged along, barely having begun inching towards the finish
line that was the PhD—perhaps six or even seven years in the future—my
life began to feel less and less like a steady climb towards the grand
goal, and more like a routine.

It was not long before I started to wonder: how did all this fit into
my spiritual journey? There seemed to be two major hurdles I had to
overcome. The first was the challenge of incorporating God into the
day-to-day work of my life. How could soldering connections on an
electrical circuit or rearranging lenses on an optics table have
anything to do with God? It did not help that Harvard had a strongly
secular environment, where few people professed their faith or even
talked about spiritual matters at all.

The second came from seeing fellow graduate students, researchers, and
professors working hard to discover great new things in physics. They
were competitive, driven, and ambitious, working for the sake of an
earthly goal. But didn’t Jesus teach us to store up our treasures in
heaven, not on earth (Matthew 6:20)? Was I also doing all of this for
personal fame and glory?

Over the next year, God led me to cross these two hurdles. Last
summer, I joined a special focus group in my Christian fellowship, and
we committed ourselves to writing daily about our experience with the
Bible. We read a chapter of a book a day. We went through Romans,
Galatians, 1-3 John, and Ephesians. I kept to the writing schedule
strictly, forcing myself to write something even when that day’s
chapter felt irrelevant or obvious. And I learned many things.

In Romans, I was struck by the beauty of God’s plan for salvation. In
1 John, I learned the importance of loving one another. In Ephesians I
obtained valuable insights for practicing the Christian life. But I
was struck by a common theme present across all of these epistles: the
constant admonition to be attuned to the will of God, to focus all of
our thoughts on Him. As Paul said in Romans 13:14 (ESV): “But put on
the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify
its desires.” The phrase “put on” resonated with me. We have to put on
Jesus Christ like a piece of clothing that we wear everywhere, in
everything we do, experience, and communicate. Through this verse, the
road to integrating faith and work became clear to me.

Was there an explicit guidebook, a “how-to” of what I had to do every
day to incorporate my faith into my work life? Not at all. But I
quickly realized that this was the wrong question. As Paul wrote in 1
Corinthians 10:31: “So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do,
do all to the glory of God.”

I realized that there was no need to look for a spiritual dimension to
the daily drudgery of lab chores, tedious experiments, and lengthy
meetings. As long as I was doing good work, this was a way to glorify
God. I had to simply put on the Lord Jesus Christ in everything I did,
to attune my mind and soul towards Him to such an extent that there
would no longer be a need to constantly look for a spiritual dimension
in all of my activities. I had to simply put on the Lord Jesus Christ
in everything I did, to attune my mind and soul towards Him to such an
extent that there would no longer be a need to constantly look for a
spiritual dimension in all of my activities.

A specific experience during the summer cemented this truth in my
mind. I had been assigned a difficult task by my professor, and due to
various circumstances, was forced to work on the project alone at
night when nobody else was using the equipment. There was much
pressure on me from everyone to get the system working within a week.
As a new graduate student, I was incredibly nervous taking on this
responsibility.

One particular night, I tried to do things according to plan, but it
seemed like nothing was working. I was about to panic and give up in
despair when a small voice reminded me that it was unseemly for me to
worry when God had pulled me through so many difficult situations in
my life. I submitted to this nudging of the Holy Spirit and prayed. A
distinctive peace came upon me; I cast my anxieties on Him (1 Peter
5:7), and within a few hours the problem was solved.

Two weeks later, my project was mostly finished. I had been “baptised”
by fire. To others in my lab, it may have seemed like a purely
intellectual development, but I knew that it was also a spiritual one.
When we “put on” Jesus Christ, casting our anxieties on Him becomes
second nature to us.

The first hurdle—of how to incorporate spirituality into the daily
routine—was therefore solved. The solution to the second hurdle
followed soon after. I started to see my position at Harvard as part
of God’s plans—He had given me the talent and opportunities to come
here, and to work with such great colleagues.

I saw that my work could not be about earthly and human goals;
instead, it was a way to catch a glimpse of God’s thoughts. my work
could not be about earthly and human goals; instead, it was a way to
catch a glimpse of God’s thoughts. He had created the universe with
all its atoms and molecules and physical laws, and just like Adam was
tasked to name the animals in the Garden of Eden (Genesis 2:19-20), I
had been given the task of examining His creation to uncover the
beauty that He had created.

Knowing this incredible truth, I no longer saw any conflict between
the industrious nature of my work and the calling to fulfill His
purposes. My personal purpose on earth was now clear: If I worked hard
on my experiment while “wearing” the Lord Jesus Christ, I would be
doing what He wanted me to do. This gave me additional drive to do all
things well—not only the glamorous and exciting things, but also the
mundane chores and tasks.

My experience in graduate school may be a peculiar and specific one.
But I firmly believe that the basic principle of glorifying God in
what one does best applies to everything and everyone. When we do our
work well, we are producing something of value to the world.

So while we go about doing more “spiritual” things like sharing our
faith, ministering to our fellow workers, and following our Christian
ethics, it is important to note that we are doing something as
spiritual as anything else when we attune our hearts to Him and
perform our work to the utmost of our abilities.

