http://ymi.today/2016/10/does-my-worship-please-god/

Does My Worship Please God?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jesse Schmidt, Canada

I am easily distracted by just about anything. In some cases, the
distraction is temporary and does not really affect whatever I am
doing. But then I’ve realized that this bad habit is manifesting
itself when I am in the midst of the very thing I don’t want to be
distracted from—when I am worshipping God during church service.

This often happens when I focus on the externals of such
gatherings—say, when I am at a church that conducts a concert-style of
praise (think bright lights, loud music, and a lot of flair). Although
I may be singing along or even clapping to the beat, my mind tends to
be filled with negative and critical feelings about the way the
service is being conducted. My focus ends up not on the Lord, but on
the things around me.

The more I’ve mulled over why I get so easily distracted during such
times, the more I’ve started thinking about the act of worshipping
itself. What, exactly, do we mean by “worship”?

Worship, according to Oxford Dictionaries, is to “show reverence and
adoration for (a deity)”. We worship God with our entire lives. In
John 4:23-24, Jesus explains that we ought to worship God in spirit
and in truth, and that those who do so are the kind of worshippers the
Father seeks.

Have I fallen short of this definition of worship—especially when I am
singing songs of praise in church? What does worshipping in spirit and
in truth mean in such a context? How do we know if our worship is
pleasing to God?

Worshipping in spirit means to worship with all of our hearts. Our
worship to God, whether it is in singing songs of praise or in our
everyday lives, has to come out of hearts that have a genuine passion
and love for Him. Without this, our actions and words will be empty.

That means that whether I’m singing by myself in a small room or if
I’m in a congregation, I ought to be able to praise God all the same.
When we’re focused on God, external factors—how we feel or what
circumstances we’re going through in life—will not affect how we
praise Him. I ought to still be able to praise Him when I’m having a
bad day or when things seem to go wrong.

One good example that never fails to inspire me is that of Paul and
Silas when they were praying and singing hymns in prison (Acts
16:24-25). Even in their small prison cells and in their circumstances
of tribulation and persecution, the two were able to praise God with
all of their hearts. They were able to do so because their hearts
truly desired and loved God.

May our hearts be like that of Paul and Silas. May we be able to learn
how to sing to God regardless of our circumstances and environments.

Worshipping God in truth is to adore Him for who He is. Jesus says
that “[He is] the way and the truth and the life” (John 14:6). In
other words, we need to understand God’s character and acknowledge who
He is.

It is impossible for me to develop a strong attachment and affection
for someone if I don’t know that person well. I can’t speak of how
good God is (let alone sing praises and worship Him) if I don’t know
Him personally and intimately. We simply can’t love and worship God if
we know Him only through what others say He is like; we need to know
Him for ourselves.

Praising God and singing to Him without a proper understanding of His
truth and character can therefore lead to an empty expression fuelled
by hype and good feelings. I can sing loudly in church and know all
the songs by heart—but not have an intimate relationship with God. But
that is not what God desires.

Ultimately, to worship God in spirit and in truth—to grow a heart that
is passionate for God and to know His character—we need to spend time
with Him. By reading the Bible regularly, setting aside time to pray
and growing our relationship with Him, we will naturally also grow in
our worship of Him. We have to know Him to love Him, and we have to
love Him to desire to worship Him and show His worth in our lives.

