http://ymi.today/2017/08/landing-in-the-pig-pen-instead-of-my-dream-
job/

Landing in the Pig Pen Instead of My Dream Job

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ellen Bargh, UK

As I walked into the farm yard in my pink-striped wellies and
oversized farm gear, I was hopeful that this job would only be for a
couple of weeks.

A friend and I had always joked about me going to work at his family
farm in UK, my home country. It had always seemed ridiculous to me. I
couldn’t work on a farm; I worked with people, not animals. I liked
the comfort of being inside—not getting mucky and cold.

But here I was, working on a farm while waiting to fulfil my dream of
living abroad. Over the past six years of studying in Canada, I had
started to build my life there; I had friends and even my own
apartment. When a job I had desired for a long time became vacant, it
seemed like everything was coming together. The job involved working
with students and doing administration. I loved the thrill of tasks
and details as well as talking to people and helping them as they went
through their years in college.

The week before I was due to fly back to the UK, I was interviewed for
the position of Assistant to Dean of Students. All I needed was a visa
to move to Canada to start my dream life.

But things didn’t work out as I wanted. Those couple of weeks on the
farm turned into a couple of months, and my dream slowly slipped away.
In the end, I did not qualify for the visa, and the job was filled by
someone else.

Now, instead of my fun pink-striped wellies, I had proper green farm
wellies. Reality had set in that I was going to be there for what
seemed like the long haul. Instead of sitting in a nice lovely office,
I was in a pig pen shovelling muck. Instead of listening to students
talk excitedly about starting college, I was deafened by the squeals
of piglets ringing constantly in my ears. This wasn’t what I dreamed
my life would be after finishing my degree.

As I drove to work each day, often with tears streaming down my face,
I would ask God why He had me working at a farm with pigs rather than
with people who needed Jesus. What use was I in a pig pen? I wasn’t
telling anyone about Jesus or working with children. How could this be
what God wanted for me?

It was a daily battle to go to work and take my frustrations with the
mundane to God. I wrestled with this for months. I was weary of what
seemed like meaningless work. But the longer I stayed, the more honest
I became with myself and God. God began to soften my heart and show me
that He wanted me to talk to Him all day while I was working. He
wanted me to love Him for Him—not because of what He does for me or
because He could give me a better life. He wanted me to love Him for
Him—not because of what He does for me or because He could give me a
better life.

I looked to the Bible for comfort, remembering that popular verse from
Jeremiah 29:11, “For I know the plans I have for you,” declares the
Lord, “plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you
hope and a future.”

I started reading Jeremiah to find out more. I was shocked by the
verses that came before verse 11. Jeremiah 29:5-7 says: “Build houses
and settle down; plant gardens and eat what they produce. Marry and
have sons and daughters; find wives for your sons and give your
daughters in marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters.
Increase in number there; do not decrease. Also, seek the peace and
prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Pray to
the Lord for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper.”

God had sent the Israelites into exile. And while they were there,
they were to build a life and do good to the place they were in, even
though they didn’t want to be there or thought they shouldn’t be
there.

As I went over these verses in my mind, I began to see the good things
God had put before me in the place I was in. I was working with a
wonderful family, and I had an amazing church family where I was asked
to be involved in youth and children’s work. Of course, my desire to
work with people was still there. And though my desire to be in a
different job didn’t fade, I gave what I had to where I was at.

Recently, I read an Our Daily Bread booklet on contentment where the
writer Gary Inrig writes, “Contentment, then, is not about self-
sufficiency but Christ-sufficiency. It is not resignation but
satisfaction. It is not acceptance of the status quo or surrender of
ambition but submission to Christ and His purposes. Godly contentment
isn’t about complacency or passivity or an otherworldly detachment
from life . . . It is a deep-seated satisfaction that is the gift of
Christ.”

A good job was never going to give me the contentment I wanted. It was
only by looking to Jesus that I could find contentment and peace. The
more time I dug into the things God gave me in the place I was at, I
realised it was Him that I needed, and not a job.

Here’s three things that helped me to be content:



Give thanks daily for specific things God has given us each day—not
just in the good times but all the time (1 Thessalonians 5:18). When
we thank God, we focus on the good things, and soon envy and
discontentment fade.

Even if we aren’t where we want to be, we can seek the good of the
people or place we are in. Rather than tell ourselves we just need to
get through this period of time till God takes us to the next thing,
we can give ourselves fully to people or tasks during the time we are
in “exile” (Jeremiah 29:5-6).



If we are always focusing on what is next—the next job, the next
relationship or the next house—we aren’t focusing on becoming more
like Christ. It doesn’t matter where we are, God’s will for us is to
be like Jesus.

