http://ymi.today/2015/04/are-we-sinning-more-on-social-media/

Are We Sinning More on Social Media?

Author: by Ian Tan

It’s 3 a.m. in the morning. I toss and turn in bed, trying to combat
insomnia. I give up, reach for my iPhone and, without thinking, launch
my Facebook app (bad habit, I know.) Facebook and Instagram seem to be
the two apps I’m always clicking on my mobile phone, most of the times
unconsciously.

As always, I check through the new notifications before scrolling
through my newsfeed. Amid the myriad of updates, a post titled “What
the . . .”, accompanied by a video link and a caption that reads
“nanny stomps on 2-year old baby”, catches my eye. I click on the
video and spend the next 2 minutes and 40 seconds watching what seems
to be CCTV footage of a woman taking it out on a toddler for spilling
some food on the floor. The woman, probably a nanny, throws the child
onto the floor, grabs a comb-like object and repeatedly hits the child
on her back. She then kicks the crying child and uses her foot to
stomp on the child’s back.

“What in the world is wrong with this lady?” I ask aloud, feeling rage
and disgust surge through me.

Still reeling in shock from the atrocity I had just seen, I continue
to scroll down my newsfeed. A few more posts later, I click on another
video with the caption “Haha . . .” Within seconds, I realize in
horror that the video is no laughing matter. A young female student is
cornered in a classroom by three or four other girls, who take turns
to abuse her physically. They start by throwing chairs at the victim
before proceeding to yank her hair and slap her repeatedly. Beyond the
content of the video, I am flummoxed by its title—how could people
find humor in the sufferings of others? Thoroughly disturbed by the
two videos, I find myself more awake than ever. Great.

The next day, I relate the contents of the videos to a friend of mine
and my utter disbelief at the comments they elicited. “Why so
surprised?” my friend calmly replies. “Haven’t you seen the videos
where real people get beheaded?”

It struck me then what the real issue was. There was really nothing
new in the displays of atrocities that I had seen the previous night.
What was new was the ease and convenience with which anyone could view
such videos. Technology advancements had made social media a
convenient platform to incite and glorify violence or heinous acts,
all at the click of a mouse. In many instances, social media had,
sadly, become a platform to amplify and perpetuate the innate
sinfulness of men. In many instances, social media had, sadly, become
a platform to amplify and perpetuate the innate sinfulness of men.

To be inundated with such senseless and evil acts on a daily basis can
make one lose hope in there being justice for the weak or oppressed.
It seems almost commonplace and natural that people who cause harm or
distress to others, can get away with their wrongdoings, scot-free.

It may be comforting to know, however, that this situation is not new.
In Psalm 3, we get a glimpse of how senseless life can sometimes
become. King David had lost the support of his people, who believed
God had abandoned him. He was fleeing for his life from his own son,
Absalom, who was out to destroy him. How disheartening it must have
been! Yet, despite the hopelessness he faced, King David remained
confident that God would protect, restore and deliver him from his
enemies (Psalm 3:6-8).

In Proverbs 15:3, we are reminded that the eyes of the Lord roam the
earth, and that He watches both the righteous and the wicked. For the
righteous, God watches over them to reward godly deeds and show favor
to the upright (Psalm 11:7). For the wicked, He watches on them to
judge them, either here on earth or on the day of judgement (Psalm
11:6).

Knowing that the God I believe in will finally avenge the righteous
and deal with evil, gives me hope that the craziness that is happening
in the world today will finally end someday, and everything will be
made right.





Ian is a proponent of Steve Jobs’ fashion style — black t-shirt and
jeans are all you need in your closet. While you would usually find
him talking to people, he’s actually an introvert and his favorite
colour is green. Staying behind his camera capturing the beauty of
God’s creation is where he’s most comfortable. If push comes to shove,
he would rather jump out of a plane than sit on a roller coaster. But
when it comes to potato chips, you can always find a supporter in him.
Anytime, anyplace.



