http://ymi.today/2015/11/real-world-problems-sometimes-they-start-at-
home/

Real-world problems? Sometimes, they start at home

Author: by Contributor

Written By Koh B. E., Singapore

Peter*, 13, has a growth in his brain that will cause major problems
if it is not removed. Already, it causes him some discomfort; the
young boy keeps rubbing his forehead. Doctors fear that it will start
to press on his brain, causing complications, or even result in a
fatal stroke if it cuts off blood supply to his brain.

The night before a scheduled operation, however, Peter couldn’t sleep,
despite efforts by his parents to pacify him. By the next morning, he
was running a high fever, and the operation had to be cancelled. His
parents are now at a loss. They have spent so many10 days and nights
of their lives looking after Peter in the past few years, fearing that
they might lose their dear son. A surgery is essential, but the poor
boy is too scared to undergo one. All they can say is, “We don’t know
what to do, all we have is our hope in God. We just have to hang on to
Him.”

Sure, we all know about real-world problems. Big problems like
terrorism and economic downturns. Moral problems like pornography and
greed. Important problems like poverty and pollution.

But these are not problems that Peter’s parents worry about. It’s not
that they don’t care about the world around them, or are too selfish
to worry about the plight of millions of people. They have enough
worries of their own.

I learnt about the plight of Peter and his family recently, after his
mother sent out an email asking for people to pray for them. As the
details emerged, I could sense the pain that Peter’s parents must be
going through. My heart went out to them. They had so much to worry
about, and so little to hope in. What was it be like to live through
such an ordeal? I thought. What was their world like? How do they keep
their faith in God?

Then it struck me that while I was pontificating with friends and
colleagues about big-picture problems of the world—like terrorism,
moral decay etc.—here were people going through their own problems at
home.

Of course, the big-picture problems are important. Big issues like
pollution, terrorism, pornography, and family breakdown affect
individuals just as much as personal illnesses and problems at home
(it’s easy to forget this too).

But the plight of Peter and his family was a stark reminder to me that
besides the big-picture problems we see around the world (and like to
talk about), there are just as many—and just as important—problems
that many people are struggling with, much closer to home. It was a
reminder not to miss the individual trees even as I looked at the
entire forest.

It reminded me of the example set by Jesus. While He came to save the
world and humanity from its sins, He also had time—and the heart—for
individuals who suffered problems of their own, right down to the
poorest widow who had just lost her son. Jesus never missed the needs
of individuals even as He was focused on the needs of the many. Jesus
never missed the needs of individuals even as He was focused on the
needs of the many.

So what can we do to help people like Peter and his family? If we know
of such people in our neighborhood, perhaps we can help them in
practical ways, such as helping them pay for their medical bills, or
helping them run errands like buy food or clean their home. We could
also support them spiritually and emotionally by dropping in on them
or giving them a call and offering a listening ear—anything that
reminds them that they are not on their own, and that we care just as
God cares for every single one of us.

Of course, we can pray for and with them too. Apart from praying for
world peace and all the big problems of the world, we can pray for
people by name, knowing that God answers prayers and will, in His time
and way, give them hope, comfort, and assurance.

But, as I have learnt, the first step is to get to know of these
problems first. And that’s by realizing that some real-world problems
start at home. Only then, I believe, can our eyes be opened to care
and love, just as Jesus does.

*Names, ages and some details have been changed to protect privacy.

