http://ymi.today/2016/08/7-steps-for-successful-christian-living/

7 Steps for Successful Christian Living

Author: by Contributor

Written by Natalie Hanna Tan, Singapore

We know what success looks like and how to achieve it. Study hard to
get into our dream university so that we can clinch our dream job
later on, eat well and exercise so that we will have good health, love
people around us so we can enjoy good relationships . . . and the list
goes on.

We all want to be successful in life, don’t we?

How about when it comes to our walk with God? Can we live “successful”
lives in our faith? Here are a few ways God has shown me how a
“successful” life as a Christian looks like:

If you, like me, have grown up in church, this phrase will not be
foreign. I used to think that spending time with God was reading the
Bible and jotting down things I’ve learned for 15 minutes, followed by
praying for five minutes.

But recently, God has impressed on me the need to spend unhurried time
with Him. That means taking time to enjoy His presence, to commune
with Him, and to do things with Him—over and beyond the usual 20
minutes I allot to Him every day. Spending time with God isn’t a waste
of time; it’s the secret to spending the rest of our day well.

This may work differently for different people. It could mean spending
an evening instead of morning with God, hanging out at a café—as if
we’re on a date with Him—or even journaling and telling God about our
day over an ice cream.

When we spend time with God as though He’s physically here with us,
the way we communicate with Him changes—and we grow in our
understanding of Him. Not only will we see Him as our God, but we will
also learn to see Him as a father, a partner, and a friend.



In today’s society, we tend to be so busy packing our days with
activities and rushing from point A to B that we’ve lost the art of
resting. We often don’t realize that rest is actually a godly concept,
first created by God in Genesis 2:2-3.

God created the world in six days and rested on the seventh day—not
because He was tired (Isaiah 40:28), but because He wanted to bless it
and make it holy for man to rest. God emphasized the importance of
resting by creating an entire day for it.

How often do we really rest and take time out of our usual routines?
It could be spending a whole day with God or going for an afternoon
run in the park. Whatever reinvigorates and recharges us can also help
us draw closer to God.



In her book One Thousand Gifts, Canadian author Ann Voskamp wrote that
“Eucharisteo—thanksgiving—always precedes the miracle” and that our
problem is that “we aren’t satisfied in God and what He gives. We
hunger for something more, something other.”

A few years ago, I found myself struggling to thank God. I just
couldn’t see how He was good in my life, and I didn’t see anything to
thank Him for. That’s when a leader challenged me to keep a
thanksgiving journal. For 90 days, I was to write down three things to
thank God for daily. That’s 270 things to be thankful for—without any
repeats! I ended up thanking God for the minute details in life that I
tended to take for granted: blue skies and sunny days, good health,
and for hands and feet to do His work.

Psalm 118:24 says, “The Lord has done it this very day: let us rejoice
today and be glad.” God sustains us with His breath and life each
day—how can we not be thankful? When we practise gratitude daily, we
will see God’s fingerprints in life and find joy and contentment in
it.



Try this: hold up a Bible at arm’s length, before slowly bringing it
closer to you. Eventually, the Bible will occupy your view and you
won’t be able to see anything else. Of course, it doesn’t mean that
everything else isn’t there; it simply is a change of view and
perspective. Your focus is now on God.

As the classic hymn “Turn your eyes upon Jesus” goes, “the things of
earth will grow strangely dim in the light of His glory and grace”.
How true! When we fix our eyes on Jesus, we will find ourselves less
tempted and overwhelmed by the lures and challenges of this world.

When we wait on God daily, we also find strength and rest in Him
(Isaiah 40:31). Successful living begins when we recognize that we are
weak and that we need God’s help. He, not ourselves, becomes our
strength to get through each day.

“Come to me, all you who are weary and burden, and I will give you
rest.” (Matthew 11:28)



Being a successful Christian in daily pursuit of Christ means
constantly saying “no” to the world and dying to fleshly desires. In
Galatians 5:19-26, Paul talks about how we ought to move away from
fleshly desires and seek the Spirit’s leading and guidance. Matthew
16:24 also notes that anyone who wants to be a disciple of Christ has
to deny himself, take up his cross, and follow Him.

We can do so by examining our lives in the light of God’s standards,
and by seeking His forgiveness for our shortcomings. When we are
convicted of our sins and make a consistent effort to change, we are
renewed by His grace and can experience a closer relationship with
Him.



Colossians 3:23 writes, “Whatever you do, work at it with all your
heart, as working for the Lord . . .” This verse urges us to work with
excellence, putting the best of our efforts into whatever job we’re
given, however big or small, because we want to please our Master.

One way we can do this practically is to manage and organize our lives
well. Keeping track of our daily appointments and to-do lists, and
allocating time to rest, sleep, and eat well all play a part in
helping us live the best lives God intends for us. Not only does this
help us to be productive in our tasks, it also helps us to prioritize
time to spend with God and others around us.

Something I’ve been trying to do more of is to keep track of my days
on a personal scheduler. Writing down my plans and to-do items daily
helps me keep track of what and where I’m investing my time and energy
in. This allows me to lead a meaningful and purposeful life, and not
while away the time on things that don’t matter.



When it comes to our money, time, or energy, I’ve realized it’s always
a blessing to give to the kingdom of God and to people in need.

When I was in high school, God began tugging at my heart to give back
to the community. I eventually found a volunteer opportunity in my
neighborhood: To teach and play with children who had cerebral palsy
every Monday morning. To me, it wasn’t a big investment—just four
hours a week. But it seemed to mean a lot to the children whom I met
and worked with. Their big smiles never failed to make my day and
they’d always sit with me during breaks to tell me about their lives
and their families.

This experience made me realize that I was gaining more than I was
giving. I gained a new heart for children with disabilities, seeing
them in the way God sees them, and I learned how to see life from a
simple and childlike perspective.

In Acts 20:35, Paul writes, “It is more blessed to give than to
receive”. We ought to give to the work of God and do our part in
building His kingdom. Not only will the work be expanded by our
offering of money, time, energy, and expertise, but we will also find
fulfilment and joy.



These seven ways are by no means an exhaustive list to successful
Christian living. They are simply things God has impressed on me in my
Christian walk. As I journey and discipline myself to use these as a
guide to live, I find myself taking one step closer to Christ every
single day.

Ultimately, whatever form it takes, a successful life is one where we
rely on God and draw closer to Him.



