http://ymi.today/2016/07/dealing-with-the-death-knock/

Dealing with the “Death Knock’”

Author: by Michele Ong

The words “death knock” is enough to make my knees go weak and my
hands go clammy.

A “death knock” involves a journalist showing up on the doorstep of a
family who has just lost a loved one for a story. When I was a
reporter, I used to pray that I would never have to do a “death knock”
story, because I couldn’t handle the idea of having to interview a
family while they were grieving. I felt like it was intruding.

Unfortunately, it was part of the job, and I had to do my fair share
of death knocks. I covered stories including those of a young girl
killed in a car accident, a family who lost a mother because of a
drunk driver, and a young family who lost a child to cancer.

Each story was heart-wrenching, and after finishing it, I went home to
lie in bed for hours, wide awake, wondering if these families knew I
genuinely felt for them, and that I wasn’t making use of their grief
just so I could have my name on the front page.

Of the few “death knock” stories I covered, the one that stood out was
the story of the family who lost a mum in a drink-driving accident.

Family Who Lost Mom

I was working one evening shift when I was told about an accident that
had happened nearby. A pedestrian had suffered head injuries after an
SUV hit her, and had been flown to hospital. The next day, it was
revealed that the woman was a well-known artist. Her husband worked
for an arts organisation, and they had two daughters. Soon, news came
that she had passed away.

My heart sank when I was asked to get hold of the family for a story.
I left a few voice messages on the family phone and tried getting in
touch with one of their friends, but couldn’t reach them. So I set out
in the dark, with rain lashing in all directions, hoping to find the
family at home. I could feel the bile rising up from the back of my
throat as I did so. But the family wasn’t home.

I went back to office, and as I was about to pack up to go home, my
phone rang. It was the husband returning my call. While he sounded
calm and collected, my mouth felt as dry as cotton. I stumbled through
an awkward “How are you?”, and immediately felt like kicking myself
the minute the words came out. I quickly said I was sorry to hear what
had happened, but my condolences seemed hollow and insincere.

The man told me about his wife, and how passionate she was about her
children, her artwork, and her life. “She was honest, extremely
honest. There was no pretence in her,” he said. Her eldest daughter
described her mom as an “amazing person” and said, “I have not met
anyone so giving, she gave so much. She was always there for me and
always encouraged me.” Her youngest daughter sobbed at the end of the
phone, saying she missed her mom, who used to play with her every day
and missed her cuddles.

My heart broke as I wondered how anyone could cope with such a
tragedy. What really surprised me was that her husband decided to
spare the offender his jail sentence. (It was later revealed that his
wife was unlocking the door of her parked car when she was hit. The
driver was so drunk that he didn’t even know he had hit her, and had
driven on until a witness banged on his window and pulled his keys
from the ignition.)

The husband told the judge he didn’t want the offender to waste both
his time and taxpayers’ money in jail, and said that it would be
better to “put his time to more effect by educating others on the
dangers of drinking and driving, including being part of an
educational documentary—thereby potentially serving future lives.”

I felt nothing but deep respect for the man. Not many of us would have
been able to respond the same way.

Response To Suffering

From this encounter, along with others I’ve had with families of
victims, I have learned that it’s not what we say but what we do that
shows people that we are mourning with them. I have learned that it’s
not what we say but what we do that shows people that we are mourning
with them.

For me, it meant knowing when to back off when a family declined to be
interviewed, as a way of showing that I respected their wishes.
Sometimes, it also meant going out of my way to accommodate their
requests. In the case of the woman knocked down by the drunk driver,
it meant reading the story back to her family before it went to
print—which is something we would not do in normal circumstances. A
few months later, I received an email from their friend saying they
had appreciated the respect and care I had shown while doing the
interview.

As a Christian, it’s easy to say something like, “God has a reason for
this suffering”, or “God grieves with you”. But from the biblical
story of Job, I learned about how to grieve alongside someone else.

When Job’s three friends first heard of the tragedy that had befallen
him, they comforted and consoled him by simply being there and not
saying a word. They started “wailing loudly, they tore their robes and
threw dust into the air over their heads to show their grief. Then
they sat on the ground with him for seven days and nights. No one said
a word to Job, for they saw his suffering was too great for words”
(Job 2:11-13).

The Bible says we are to rejoice with those who rejoice, and to mourn
with those who mourn (Romans 12:15). That would include lending them a
shoulder to cry on, or taking the time to ask how they’re getting on,
and reminding them they’re not alone in their grief.

Sometimes, we may feel like we’ve to try and mend a person’s grieving
heart—forgetting that we have a Father who is close to the broken-
hearted (Psalm 34:18) and who weeps with us just as He wept with
Martha and Mary when he heard Lazarus was dead (John 11:35). The
Scripture also says that He’s with us “through deep waters, through
the rivers of difficulty, or when we walk through the fire of
oppression” (Isaiah 43:2). Death can sometimes seem so final, but take
heart in knowing that when Christ died on the cross for us, He’d also
won over death!



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



