http://ymi.today/2017/10/learning-about-fomo-from-lots-wife/

Learning About FOMO from Lot’s Wife

Author: by Deborah Fox

I have a confession to make. I have to Google half the new words I
come across these days. If you’re an eighties baby like me, you can
probably identify with this.

Teenagers in the group I help lead at church are always confusing me
with phrases and acronyms I’ve never heard of before. They seem to
just pick up new terminology in their sleep. Words that are so “lit”
they gain “respeck” from your new “bae” for being so “fleek”. (Need a
translation? It’s ok, there’s an app for that).

When the acronym “FOMO” came out a few years ago, I gasped at the
realization that this word—used to describe the anxiety of missing out
on something great—was actually a fairly accurate description of my
own “fear of missing out”.

When I miss out on tickets to a Bon Jovi concert, major FOMO. When my
favorite coffee shop around the corner closes for renovations (you
know, the one which uses locally roasted, specialty beans, and the
perfect barista blend of almond milk), yeah, massive FOMO. Seeing
girls 10 times younger than me getting married and having kids—you
guessed it, FOMO to the max. FOMO is actually a pretty common
experience, regardless of age, gender, culture, or ethnicity.

Why do we get so worked up about missing out on something? Is it that
we feel entitled to experiencing everything good in the world? I think
Lot’s wife has something to say about that.

In Genesis 19, we see Abram (Abraham), Sarai (Sarah), and Lot all
running for their lives as the towns of Sodom and Gomorrah are being
destroyed. They had been given clear instructions from the angels of
the Lord not to turn around—but Lot’s wife could not help looking
back.

Perhaps she was saddened by her current situation. Maybe she thought
she would return to the cities one day, and everything would go back
to the way it was. But she was so wrapped up in the past that she
missed the work that God was doing right then and there. She did not
obey the words of the Lord, and paid the price for her disobedience
with her life.

Thankfully, God hasn’t turned me into a pillar of salt yet (although
the idea of petrification does scare me from time to time!). But I
think there’s something to learn from the example of Lot’s wife, and
it is this: There is nothing to gain from looking back to the past,
even if the future is filled with uncertainty. The only way to
progress is to keep moving forward. There is nothing to gain from
looking back to the past, even if the future is filled with
uncertainty. The only way to progress is to keep moving forward.

When we’re stuck on the hamster wheel of regret, we get caught up in
unhelpful thoughts. We’re unable to move forward into the good things
God is doing and will do in the future. Rather than focusing on the
mistakes we’ve made or the things we feel we are missing in our lives,
we need to trust in the One who holds eternity in the palm of His
hand.

There may be things in my life I feel I am missing, but I know that I
have the ultimate treasure—Jesus. Many of my friends and family
members have not yet welcomed Him into their hearts. The one thing I
don’t want to regret is knowing that someone I love has missed out on
the gift of eternal life.

In the end, the only thing that really matters is that we point to
Christ and make Him known. There is nothing worse than missing out on
a loving and forgiving Savior. Think about how you can positively
affect someone’s future both now and for eternity. Because, you know,
YOLO.



Deb is thankful to be using her training in Media and Communications
to share inspiring stories of how God has transformed lives throughout
the world as a journalist and Communications specialist for Wycliffe
Bible Translators Australia. She also loves writing for YMI, using her
own imperfect story to help point others to the incredible love and
power of God. Outside of writing, Deb loves latin, ballroom, and swing
dancing. She is also a history nerd and a typical Melbourne hipster
with a coffee addiction, obsession with jazz music, art galleries, and
retro dresses.



