http://ymi.today/2015/05/manny-pacquiao-from-zero-to-hero/

Manny Pacquiao: From Zero to Hero

Author: by Joanna Hor

Boxing fan or not, you must be fairly acquainted with the names Floyd
Mayweather Junior and Manny Pacquiao by now. If not, here’s the gist:
these two—widely considered as boxing’s finest—came together to fight
last Saturday (for the very first time) in what has been called the
“fight of the century”, and Mayweather won.

Although the judges’ unanimous verdict came as a crushing blow to
Pacquiao’s fans all over the world who thought that their hero could
finally break Mayweather’s undefeated 47-0 record, post-match reaction
on social media pretty much summed up the impact the Filipino boxer
had made all over the world: Mayweather wins fight, Pacquiao wins
hearts.

Once you skim through the deluge of media reports that have been
circulating on the personal life and personality of the smiley and
unassuming man, the picture of a humble, down-to-earth, and devoted
Christian boxer who derives his confidence from God and shares his
wealth with the poor emerges.

In Pacquiao’s first comments on his Facebook page posted a day after
the historic fight, Pacquiao thanked his fans for their support and
gave glory to God for the outcome of the match:



It’s no wonder then that his popularity is still soaring and he
continues to be hailed as the people’s champion despite his loss. But
perhaps what is most compelling about the godly and wealthy Pacman (as
he is affectionately known) is that he came from a humble background,
but God found him and raised him “from nothing into something”, in his
own words.

Rags to Riches

In a classic rags to riches story that has captivated readers all over
the world and even been turned into a documentary (which was released
in US early this year), we learn that Pacquiao was born on December
17, 1978, in one of the poorest areas in Philippines. He is the fourth
among six siblings and his parents separated when he was in sixth
grade. Due to extreme poverty, Pacquiao dropped out of high school and
ran away from home at the age of 12 (after his father ate his dog.) He
sold bread and worked on construction sites before joining the
Philippines national amateur boxing team with his friend Eugene
Barutag, a fellow General Santos boxer who went to Manila with him to
make their fortune.

Sadly, tragedy struck in 1995 when his friend collapsed in the boxing
ring and died. It was a loss that fired Pacquiao’s drive to continue
their “dream” and “battle.” He went on to US where he was taken under
the wings of trainer Freddie Roach who propelled Pacquiao into
greatness.

His US debut came when he became the last minute replacement to fight
one of super bantamweight division’s most feared champions. He won
that fight convincingly and went on to become the first and only
eight-division world champion and secured 10 world titles under his
belt with a boxing record of 57 wins (which included 38 knockouts),
six losses, and two draws.

In 2000, Pacquiao married his wife, publicly known as “Jinkee”, and
they currently have five children. Besides his boxing title, Pacquiao
also wears many other hats, including that of congressman, basketball
player, actor, and singer.

Setbacks

But his newfound fame and string of successes proved to be his undoing
and Pacquiao soon succumbed to a materialistic and hedonistic
lifestyle. In an interview with CBN News in December 2012, he divulged
that although he was born into a Catholic family and would go to
church on Sundays, he would be in the bar drinking from Monday to
Saturday and was constantly gambling, swearing, and womanizing.

One day, he received a letter from his mother informing him that his
sister had dropped out of school because he had stopped sending money
back to the family. He cried and blamed himself for spending all his
money on alcohol. That night, he heard God say to him in his dream,
“My child, my child, why have you gone astray?” That night, he heard
God say to him in his dream, “My child, my child, why have you gone
astray?” That ignited his desire and hunger for the Word of God.
Poring through the Bible, he was convicted of his sins and need for
God in his life. He cried and gave his life to Jesus in repentance and
submission.

Transformation

That was four years ago. Since then, Pacquiao’s life has undergone a
complete transformation. His coach, Roach shared in an interview with
The Guardian last October that ever since he found religion, Pacquiao
no longer drinks, parties, or sleeps around. He would even “(discuss)
the Bible when we’re flying somewhere, asking what does this really
mean, what does that really mean.” It’s a testimonial that is
corroborated by the man himself who jumps on every media opportunity
to talk about God, shown for instance, in an interview with Christian
Post in April this year. Pacquiao said: “I think every Christian
athlete should be open about their relationship with the Lord, as well
as every believer. That is what the Bible commands.”

On top of being open about his faith, Pacquiao doesn’t shy away from
talking about his new priorities. In his interview with Fox News in
February, he shared: “When you have Jesus in your life, when you have
God in your life, the things in this world are not important to your
heart. What is important is God in your heart.” And it’s not just
talk, as the Pacman is expected to donate half of his earnings from
Saturday’s fight to charity.

The Pacquiao today is a marked contrast to the man who used to sell
donuts in one of the poorest streets in Philippines and to the man who
used to splurge his wealth on alcohol, women, and gambling. As we
marvel at all he has accomplished today and the inspiration he has
become, let’s remember that if not for the grace of God, he would not
be who he is today. As we marvel at all he has accomplished today and
the inspiration he has become, let’s remember that if not for the
grace of God, he would not be who he is today.

Similarly, God has saved us from our sinful state, not because of our
merit but because of His love and grace, to be His witnesses that will
“declare the praises of him who called [us] out of darkness into his
wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9). Are we, like Pacquiao, living out our
faith? If not, it isn’t too late to start now.

Photo credit: Opusdeiphotography / Source / CC BY-SA





Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



