http://ymi.today/2017/09/should-christians-be-afraid-of-spirits/

Should Christians be Afraid of Spirits?

Author: by Agnes Lee

As someone who is relatively timid, I tend to get jittery and fearful
whenever the seventh-month comes around.

Some people believe that on the first day of the month, spirits of the
dead are released from hell to come back to earth to visit their loved
ones. During this period, commonly known around Asia as the Hungry
Ghost Festival, some families burn paper money, effigies, candles, and
joss sticks along the streets and at void decks to appease the
returning ghosts.  Food offerings would also be left for the wandering
ghosts who are hungry. Temples would also organize stage performances,
with the rows in front left empty for the spirits.

When I was growing up, my parents would burn offerings to my late
grandparents. As a kid, I helped with the burning too. My mother, a
non-believer at the time, would tell me to avoid walking at void decks
where a funeral had just been held in case the spirit of the deceased
has not left. I was also warned to avoid kicking or stepping on the
offerings in case the spirits got offended.

Frightened that the spirits would follow or harm me, I obeyed my
mother’s instructions religiously. Although I never had any encounter
with spirits, the fears that I had since childhood stayed with me even
after I became a Christian.

During the Hungry Ghost Festival a few years ago, I remember walking
home alone past midnight one day and having to take a 10-minute walk
through a dimly-lit park. There were burnt offerings on the ground and
the sight reminded me of the supposed spirits of the deceased lurking
nearby. My thoughts immediately ran wild and I felt the furious
thumping of my fearful heart. Even the slightest noise of a rat
scurrying into a drain startled me.

I picked up my pace, making it home in just six minutes. As I lay on
my bed that night, my mind was filled with my earlier fears. Why was I
so afraid?

That’s when Psalm 27:1-2 came to mind. The psalmist, who described the
Lord as the stronghold of his life, wrote: “He is our light and
salvation, whom shall I fear?” David had absolute confidence in God
and knew that his enemies and foes would stumble and fall. I was
immediately comforted by the verse. Indeed, He can be my refuge and
there is nothing to fear.

As I continued to read, I came across Hebrews 9:27, which confirmed
that people die once and after death, face God’s judgement. Since the
Bible made it clear that the dead do not return to earth, my fears
started to seem illogical in light of the gospel truth. Since the
Bible made it clear that the dead do not return to earth, my fears
started to seem illogical in light of the gospel truth. Furthermore,
the Holy Spirit within us is greater than Satan (1 John 4:4). God is
living in us, is always with us, and is greater than any other
spirits.

As I write this piece, the Hungry Ghost Festival season has come
around again. However, I no longer subscribe to the superstitions
surrounding the festival or feel the fear that used to keep me
captive. Instead, this annual event now reminds me of how my mind has
been continually transformed and renewed by the Word of God.

Today, I can walk through the same park at night without fear. Instead
of fearing spirits of the dead, the only fear I have is for the One
who holds the power of eternal life and death (Matthew 10:28).



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



