http://ymi.today/2015/05/my-unconventional-heroes-in-the-faith/

My Unconventional Heroes in the Faith

Author: by Contributor

Written By Crystal Tang, Singapore

When we reflect on faith heroes who inspire us in our walk, names like
Father Abraham, Mother Theresa, Martin Luther, John Calvin, specific
pastors or leaders may spring to mind. Their faithfulness in service
and their contributions toward Christianity and humanity are
undeniable. In fact, if you think about it, Jesus Christ, our Lord and
Savior, is undoubtedly our greatest inspiration in this challenging
yet fulfilling walk of faith! Recently though, I was reminded of a
special group of people whom God has placed in my life who often go
unnoticed and unrecognized.

Perhaps it’s because they neither appear in historical records nor are
they people whom we would naturally deem as “heroes.” But that doesn’t
negate how much of an encouragement they’ve been to me in my spiritual
walk all this while. This group of people is none other than the
fellowship of believers that I belong to in church. As one body in
Christ, these brothers and sisters in Christ have been praying for me,
and rejoicing and growing together with me in the Word.

Recently, in one of our Bible studies, we rediscovered the meaning of
fellowship (“koinonia” in Greek). We recommitted ourselves to live out
the essence of Acts 2:42 where believers “devoted themselves to the
apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to
prayer.” We want to practice the essence of koinonia by living in love
and fellowship with God and man. We want to practice the essence of
koinonia by living in love and fellowship with God and man. Although
there will be times when we would fail one another, whether it’s in
our lack of love in words or actions, we can forgive each other and
continue to support each other as we remember the unconditional love
that Christ has demonstrated on the cross for each one of us.

Today if you are reading this and have yet to find your spiritual
community of “heroes”, I strongly encourage you to pray and plant
yourself into community. This is not just about being a member of a
group, but about finding a group of brothers and sisters in Christ
whom you trust, one that will spur you on in this spiritual walk with
Christ through the study of God’s Word, fellowship, and uplifting of
one another in prayers.

As believers, we are the “body of Christ” (1 Corinthians 12:27), not
classified by our background, ethnicity, socioeconomic status,
achievements, looks or personality. We have different gifts and the
purpose of our gifts is to serve one another (1 Peter 4:10). We are
called to devote ourselves in prayer for one another (Ephesians 6:18),
recognizing that we are in a spiritual warfare. We are called to
encourage one another to worship even in the toughest of times, just
as Paul and Silas exhibited in Acts 16:22-26.

Finally, just as Hebrews 10:24-25 says, “let us consider how we may
spur one another on toward love and good deeds, not giving up meeting
together, as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging one
another—and all the more as you see the Day approaching.”

Remember that no matter what happens, you are never alone in this walk
of faith!

