http://ymi.today/2015/07/what-carrying-the-cross-really-means/

What Carrying the Cross Really Means

Author: by Contributor

Written By Desiree U. Angeles, Philippines

As a Christian, I know it is important to attend church on Sundays, as
God has commanded us in his Word: “And let us consider how we may spur
one another on toward love and good deeds, not giving up meeting
together, as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging one
another” (Hebrews 10:24-25).

But having to go to church every Sunday often feels like an obligation
for me, having to studying full-time and work almost every evening.

When I first read Jesus’ words in Luke 14:27 about carrying our cross,
I could immediately identify one example of what this “cross” might
refer to. For me, going to church is the “cross” I need to carry in
order to be a true follower of Jesus, because given the extent of my
daily commitments, it is a sacrifice on my part.

But the more I read the Word of God, the more I realize that it is
only a small sacrifice compared to the many other things God wants us
to do. He wants us to carry the cross in all aspects of our lives. In
our relationships with others, God wants us to love difficult people,
to be patient and to have a forgiving heart. When we are troubled by
life’s problems, we are to rejoice and have hope (Romans 12:12), to
trust in Christ (Mark 9:23), and to be strong and have courage (Isaiah
40:29-31).

God instructs us to not conform to this world (Romans 12:2), to do
nothing out of selfish desires (Philippians 2:3-4), and to do
everything for the glory of God (1 Corinthians 10:31). Most
importantly, we must love the Lord our God more than we love ourselves
and anyone else (Mark 12:30). All of these things are part of the
“cross” we need to carry in our everyday lives as followers of Christ.

It may not be easy to do all this. And if we regard these commands as
burdensome obligations, we will never be able to carry out any of
them.

On the other hand, if we trust in Jesus and the provision of the Holy
Spirit, who abides in our hearts, we will be able to carry the cross,
not out of mere obligation, but out of our genuine love for Him. if we
trust in Jesus and the provision of the Holy Spirit, who abides in our
hearts, we will be able to carry the cross, not out of mere
obligation, but out of our genuine love for Him.

Are you willing to carry the cross?



Photo credit: Close to Home / Foter / CC BY-NC

