http://ymi.today/2017/10/can-i-really-make-a-difference/

Can I Really Make A Difference?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Tay Boon Jin

Boon Jin has been a staff with Singapore Youth for Christ for the past
15 years. She now serves in Malaysia—reaching children through the
teaching of English.

“50 Inspirational Quotes On Making A Difference” “Quotes About Making
A Difference (153 quotes)” “The Power of One”

There is no lack of websites that encourage people to make a
difference. One of the most common quotes which often pops up comes
from the 35th President of the United States, John F. Kennedy, who
said, “One person can make a difference, and everyone should try.”

Although most of these quotes are not given in context, it is not
difficult to guess what they’re pointing towards. Poverty, war, crime,
discrimination, and abuse of our environment are but some of the
perennial issues we often read about in the news.

We sense the urgent need for a cure to the issues plaguing us. Yet,
the problems our society face seem too big and complex, the resources
needed to solve the problems too immense. “Can I make a difference?”
becomes empty rhetoric and unachievable.

Of course, we’ve read of how some people made a huge impact
individually. However, we may struggle to believe that what they
achieve is actually attainable for us, too.



If we view the world from the big picture that God Himself has painted
for us, we cannot but be persuaded that the root of all our problems
is our sin. Thus, in some sense, there’s nothing that anyone can do
that can make a real and permanent difference. The fallen state of our
world makes human effort futile; the permeating effects of sins cannot
be undone. In fact, each of us as a sinner contributes to the problem,
in both large and small ways.

But God gave the solution to the world’s problem: the Lord Jesus
Christ. He so loved the world that He sent His Son, who came in a
humiliating fashion to take our punishment for us (John 3:16). If God
holds the solution, perhaps the only difference we can truly make is
to point someone to the solution by the word we preach and by the way
we live.

When God makes us right and brings us back to Him, our perspective of
the earthly life will change. A man may remain poor, but he no longer
measures his worth by his wealth (or lack of it). A man may live in a
war zone, but he trusts God for the peace in his heart.



That said, this does not change the fact that the social problems we
face are tangible and affect us at every level. Neither does it mean
that Christians should avoid all form of social good and humanitarian
work. But perhaps we need to re-examine our motivations.

Jesus told this lesson in Matthew 25:31-40: “When the Son of Man
comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, he will sit on his
glorious throne. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he
will separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates the
sheep from the goats. He will put the sheep on his right and the goats
on his left. Then the King will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you
who are blessed by my Father; take your inheritance, the
kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world. For I was
hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me
something to drink, I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed
clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was
in prison and you came to visit me.’ Then the righteous will answer
him, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and
give you something to drink? When did we see you a stranger and invite
you in, or needing clothes and clothe you? When did we see you sick or
in prison and go to visit you?’ The King will reply, ‘Truly I tell
you, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and
sisters of mine, you did for me.’”

In this passage, our Lord Jesus illustrates how a follower of His
ought to respond to the needs in this world—by helping out in a very
practical and tangible way. But Jesus doesn’t say this because He
wants His disciples to change the world. Instead, the reason He gives
for us to serve others, even the “least” of all, is this: By doing so,
we are serving Jesus Himself. That should and must be our motivation
as we go about doing social good. We are to live Christ-centered lives
so that the world will be attracted to Jesus.

As we look at great men of faith who have gone before us, we see
countless servants of God who have left their homes to sow the gospel
seed in foreign lands. They did not go because they thought they could
change the world; they went because God called. Some did not live to
see the fruit of their labor; in fact, some gave their lives that the
fruit may be borne.

In my recent phase of life, God has given me opportunities to minister
to a poor community in another country. My initial encounter with this
community got me thinking hard about how to meet their needs. Some of
the ideas that sprang to mind included ways to alleviate poverty, put
all the children through school and keep them there, guide the youths
to find a clear and good purpose in life, and even provide employment
for the adults. These were all good goals, but I soon realized that
they were beyond my means. It was discouraging to know that I could
not provide the help that they needed.

It was then that I was reminded of Jesus’ words that the smallest
effort to the least is by no means insignificant. I began to look at
how I could help the individual: provide socks and shoes when a kid
went to school in slippers, provide a month’s breakfast when a kid
stopped going to school because he had no food to sustain him through
the morning’s learning, provide information to unemployed parents
whenever I knew of factories that had job vacancies.

As each of these recipients thanked me for relieving them of their
worries and needs at those points, it gave me opportunities to testify
to them that God was the one who had provided. Some of them even
thanked God with me.

So let’s continue to labor on in helping others practically and
spiritually. Let’s take heart that God will bring about this great
work of sanctifying His people to live lives that glorify Him. And
ultimately, let’s be encouraged that God will bring about perfection
in the world when Christ comes again!

