http://ymi.today/2015/08/speak-the-truth-or-keep-silent/

Speak the Truth, or Keep Silent?

Author: by Joanna Hor

If you’ve ever wondered what it means to be candid, talk to my mother.
If she didn’t like something, she’d say so without mincing her words.
If she felt we were making the wrong decision, she’d harp on how the
cons outweighed the pros. If she was facing any problems, she’d tell
us exactly what they were and ask for help without any hesitation.

Pretty characteristic of most mothers, you may think. But unlike most
mums who would be blunt only within the family, my mum was equally
blunt with everyone.

Once, she gave my cousin a piece of her mind for not spending enough
time with his parents. Another time, she told her colleague to give
her son more play time instead of just sending him to one enrichment
class after another. On another occasion, she cited statistical data
to prove to my brother’s friend that the copious amount of sugar in
soft drinks was detrimental to his health.

Every time she dished out her unsolicited advice, I would observe the
reaction of the receiving party. Most of the time, they laughed
awkwardly. Sometimes, they nodded sheepishly, and every once in a
while, I could see them squirm in their seats.

Keeping silent

Although I’m my mother’s daughter, I find it very hard to be that
frank and honest. When forced to give an opinion, I tend to adopt the
“sandwich approach”: start with a compliment, slide in the criticism,
then end with another compliment. Most of the time, however, I keep my
mouth shut to avoid any awkwardness or confrontation. The main problem
with the latter approach is that people end up taking my silence as
consent. Actually, I may completely disagree with their point of view,
but they won’t have a clue because I don’t say a word.

That is one of the reasons why I admire my mum’s directness. At least
if she says she likes something, I can trust that she actually means
it. But a far more important reason is that underlying her painfully
honest and at times almost cruel comments, is the fact that my mother
really cares. When she opens her mouth to give her two cents’ worth on
an issue, it’s because she really hopes we’d do the right thing. And
when we do get things right, she is genuinely happy for us.

In contrast, I don’t offer my views a lot because—I’m ashamed to admit
this—I don’t really care that much. I’d much rather maintain a
superficial, cordial relationship than risk spoiling it by telling
others what I really think. Many times, I find myself smiling or
nodding when hearing an opinion, but actually thinking about how
absolutely ridiculous that person’s view is. I speak up only if it’s
with people I’m close to or care about. And if you have the privilege
(or misfortune) to hear what I really think, it can get pretty
unpleasant.

Recently, a thought crossed my mind about why voicing my opinion
bothered me so much. Did it really matter what my opinion was? The
answer was clearly no. But what if it was a matter of right and wrong?
Would I speak up? I found these questions difficult to answer.

A dear sister in Christ showed me what was the right thing to do when
I was in my second year in college. She had asked if I could help lead
a group of juniors in Bible study; I replied that I needed to focus on
studying for my A-level examination at the end of that year. I can’t
remember exactly what else she said, but her final question has been
etched in my memory ever since: “If God were to ask you, ‘What have
you done for Me at the age of 18?’, how would you reply?”

Convicted of my selfishness, short-sightedness, and lack of love for
my sisters in Christ, I broke down in tears.

Till this day, I count this as one of the most painful but precious
lessons God has taught me through a friend. This sister of mine, in
daring to speak up on something she felt was wrong, had exemplified
what Proverbs 27:5–6 says about “wounds” inflicted by friends This
sister of mine, in daring to speak up on something she felt was wrong,
had exemplified what Proverbs 27:5–6 says about “wounds” inflicted by
friends : “Better is open rebuke than hidden love. Wounds from a
friend can be trusted, but an enemy multiplies kisses.”

Speaking the truth, without love

Of course, the motivation behind any rebuke or advice must be love.
Far too often, Christians have been guilty of being bigoted, unloving,
and intolerant in our attempt to uphold the truth in our lives and
around us. As an ignorant and impudent 10-year-old, I remember telling
my classmate about Jesus on one occasion and urging him to put his
faith in Him. When my friend said he didn’t believe and turned to walk
away, I remember yelling out to him: “If you don’t believe in Jesus,
you’re going to hell.” I’m just grateful my friend didn’t turn around
to punch me in the face. His reply, on the contrary, left me stumped:
“If I’m going to hell, so be it.”

Looking back, that episode was a perfect example of me speaking the
truth without love. If I had genuinely cared about my friend, I would
have taken the time to find out why he didn’t believe, try to address
his concerns in the best way I could, and pray for him—instead of
simply pronouncing judgement in a vindictive manner.

Speaking the truth, in love

In Ephesians 4:15, Paul tells us to speak the truth in love to help
our fellow brothers and sisters grow in maturity and Christ-likeness.
There is a need to speak the truth in love, even if it hurts, and even
if it is not sought after. There is a need to speak the truth in love,
even if it hurts, and even if it is not sought after. In his article
on “Truth and Love”, pastor and author of more than 50 books, John
Piper, notes that speaking the truth in love doesn’t always mean
speaking in a soft way—or else Jesus could be said to be guilty of
lacking love in dealing with some of the folks in the Gospels. My
mother too is a good example of how truth need not always be dished
out in a soft-spoken way.

Piper went on to explain that speaking the truth in love however,
“does ask about what is the most helpful thing to say when everything
is considered. Sometimes what would have been a hard word to one group
is a needed act of love to another group, and not a wrong to the group
addressed. But in general, love shapes truth into words and ways that
are patient and gentle.”

Truth and love go hand in hand. Pastor and theologian Tim Keller put
it perfectly in one of his sermons: “Truth without love is imperious
self-righteousness. Love without truth is cowardly self-indulgence.”

So far, I’ve been guilty of both—self-righteousness and self-
indulgence. I still have a long way to go, but I pray that through
time, I will learn to speak the truth again—but this time with genuine
love.



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



