http://ymi.today/2015/08/friends-through-thick-and-thin/

Friends Through Thick and Thin

Author: by Contributor

Written by Christine E., USAWithout my dear college friends and
sisters, my wedding would not have been possible. A photo of my
bridesmaids shows them in their pretty dresses and bearing bright
smiles, but these belie the many hours and days of frantic efforts to
put a wedding together in spite of a famously indecisive bride. The
photo also doesn’t show them changing into T-shirts and sweatpants for
some intense cleaning up after the wedding was over.

Because of them, and because of the presence of so many other dear
friends and family members, it was a beautiful wedding. My husband and
I had only recently graduated from college at the time, which meant
that many of our close friends were, like us, were burdened with
college debts and still struggling to find a job. Yet, they somehow
managed to scrimp and save enough to travel from near and far to join
us. Some even travelled as far as 12,500 kilometers for a two-hour
ceremony.

I should not have been surprised. I know these people, and I know how
deep our friendships go. The girls in the photo would do anything in
their power to show up and witness this joyous occasion with me. And I
know that if I were ever to be down and out, these sisters would be
willing to drop everything and do whatever they could to help me. And
I know that if I were ever to be down and out, these sisters would be
willing to drop everything and do whatever they could to help me.

It reminds me of what Jesus said: “Greater love has no one than this:
to lay down one’s life for one’s friends” (John 15:13).

The greatest test of friendship is whether we’re willing to go to the
extent of dying for our friends. And Jesus is our perfect example and
greatest friend. He is God, but for us—before we even knew him—He
became man and lived a humble life. And in the end, He laid down His
own life, in an incredibly gruesome and painful manner, for us. Have
we ever stopped to think about the magnitude of this act? What greater
love is there than this?

Jesus goes on to say, “You are my friends if you do what I command. I
no longer call you servants, because a servant does not know his
master’s business. Instead, I have called you friends, for everything
that I learned from my Father I have made known to you” (John
15:14–15).

Jesus called us His friends, and died for us so that we may live. And
having made known to us all that He has learned from the Father, He
urges us to love each other (John 13:17).

It’s got me thinking about the way I live out this sacrificial love in
my own life. Do I show my friends the love that Jesus commanded? Am I
laying down my life for them daily?

Jesus’ life, death, and resurrection has shown us what it means to
love. And my friends’ acts of love and commitment to me truly reflect
Jesus’ sacrificial love in their lives. I pray that I will do likewise
for them, and for Him.

Photo credit: Yuri Samoilov Photo / Foter / CC BY

