http://ymi.today/2015/04/my-paradigm-shift-on-christianity/

My Paradigm Shift on Christianity

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joanne S. Dionela, Philippines

I was born into a fairly religious family. I attended church
regularly, and participated in the same church activities as my
parents did—not just in one church, but two. Nobody ever questioned
the state of my salvation. Naturally, I didn’t either.

In high school, however, my paradigm on faith and salvation was shaken
up for the first time. One day, my elder sister asked me a strange
question: “Do you want to go to hell?” Obviously not, I thought. Who
wants to go to hell? And with my regular attendance at two churches,
how could she even suggest that?

But she went on to explain to me that my salvation was not linked to
what religion or church membership my parents had, but by the grace of
God. “For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this
is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God—not by works, so that no
one can boast.” (Ephesians 2:8–9)

Then I encountered a passage from Romans 10:9–10: “If you declare with
your mouth, “Jesus is Lord,” and believe in your heart that God raised
him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is with your heart that
you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you
profess your faith and are saved.”

That shook me up more. Did I actually have to verbally profess my
faith to God and declare Jesus as Lord to be saved? Did I actually
have to believe in my heart that God raised Him from the dead? Did
this mean that despite all my previous religious acts, I didn’t have
the right to become a child of God? And that if I didn’t believe these
things, it would mean an eternal separation from God? It sounded
terribly unfair to me.

The irony, however, was that it was indeed unfair—but not to me. In
fact, the requirements for my salvation were completely unfair to God,
since He paid for my salvation with the life of His own begotten Son.
Jesus’ death on the cross provided the ultimate and only way for our
redemption, not just from hell but also from a life without His
guidance, blessing and purpose—which is as good as death.

At that point, I began to understand that there was nothing I could do
on my own to replace what God had done for me. My paradigm on faith
and salvation was turned on its head. At the end of the day, I was but
a “religious” sinner who desperately needed Jesus Christ as my Savior
and Lord. My paradigm on faith and salvation was turned on its head.
At the end of the day, I was but a “religious” sinner who desperately
needed Jesus Christ as my Savior and Lord. And I needed to confess it
with my mouth and believe it with my heart, taking God at His word in
faith.

So I did it. I repented of my sin and declared Christ as my Lord and
Savior. This proved to be the wisest and best change in thinking I
have ever undergone. It gave me purpose, meaning and direction in
life, and I have never been the same again.

I’ve also come to realize that contrary to what I used to believe,
repentance is not just about being emotional and feeling sorry for
what we’ve done wrong. It is also an attitude that brings about true
and lasting change in us. And the best way for us to stay in this new
paradigm is to heed what Romans 12:2 says: “Do not conform to the
pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your
mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God’s will is—his
good, pleasing and perfect will.”

Have you experienced a similar shift in your paradigm?

