http://ymi.today/2016/02/why-marriage-isnt-the-only-way-to-experience-
true-love/

Why Marriage isn’t the only way to experience True Love

Author: by Contributor

Written By Adriel Yeo, Singapore

When I was in my teenage years, one of the signs of our coming of age
was being able to buy liquor, and drink in bars or pubs. But as time
went by and the guys completed their time in National Service and the
girls entered their final year of university, drinking lost its
novelty.

We had eased into a new phase of growing up and a new sign had emerged
as a significant mark of adulthood. I first noticed this change on my
Facebook news feed. Yes, I’m talking about Relationship Status.

I recall quite vividly one Valentine’s Day about two years ago, when
at least four of my friends got engaged. Within a year, I found myself
attending weddings. While I knew that this day was going to come, I
just didn’t realize it was going to be this soon.

As I celebrated the matrimony of my friends, however, I realized there
was a common thought pattern among many of the Christian youth I spoke
to as a youth worker. Many had the perception that it was only through
marriage that one could fully experience what Christians call “agape”,
or God’s unconditional love. And that if they were somehow unable to
find a partner, they would never get to experience this love.

But I disagree.

Let me be clear first: I do believe that Christian marriage ought to
have the sacrificial, unconditional love that Christ showed the church
(Ephesians 5:25) and for that reason, one can certainly experience and
practise the love of Christ within marriage. What I do not believe,
however, is that the love of Christ can only be experienced in
marriage.

Jesus told His disciples: “This is my commandment, that you love one
another as I have loved you” (John 15:12). The imperative is
straightforward: the Christian community is told to show a love that
reflects Christ’s love for his people, the same love that took Him to
the cross.

This is both challenging and comforting. It is challenging because it
instructs us to show sacrificial, unconditional love to everyone, just
as God first extended His love to us even when we didn’t deserve it.

But it is also comforting because it reminds us that the love of
Christ can be experienced regardless of whether we are single or
married. But it is also comforting because it reminds us that the love
of Christ can be experienced regardless of whether we are single or
married. The instruction was meant not just for spouses, but to one
another. In the same vein, 1 John 4:19—“We love because he first loved
us”—doesn’t just address married couples, nor does it talk about a
love that can be found only in marriage. Rather, it is addressed to
anyone who professes belief in God.

This understanding of what love is and where it is found can help us
be confident in our identity. Imagine if one can experience
unconditional love only as a married person. Wouldn’t that suggest
that singles are less important in the sight of God than married
individuals? A person could certainly experience God’s love within
marriage in the form of the love between husband and wife that ought
to reflect Christ’s love for the church. But it is also true that one
can experience God’s love as a single, between fellow believers in the
church.

While the sad reality is that many of us fail to show this sort of
love among friends and fellow believers, the solution isn’t to find it
in marriage or to think that it exists only in marriage. Instead, the
solution is to go back to the source of love—God Himself. For it is
only in God that we see true and perfect love, manifested in the
person of Jesus Christ who loved us and gave Himself for us.

