http://ymi.today/2017/08/giving-god-the-glory-or-using-his-name-in-
vain/

Giving God the Glory or Using His Name in Vain?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Clare H, Singapore

Some nights ago, I dreamed of *Kate, a friend whom I hadn’t talked to
in over 10 years. I woke up in shock and had a hard time getting back
to sleep.

This thought kept me awake for a long time, because Kate was someone I
had deeply hurt in my teens. You see, before I came to know God and
gave my life to Christ, I was a mean and nasty friend. I was
insensitive to my friends (including my closest friends), had made
many hurtful remarks, and also betrayed their trust. The worst part
was that I had never apologized for any of this.

So when I was jolted awake by this dream, I knew immediately that it
wasn’t just another dream to be forgotten. I sensed strongly that God
wanted me to contact Kate and to do what I should have done 10 years
ago―apologize.

When I got up the next morning, I thought to myself how tough God’s
request was. I had all the reasons to ignore His promptings and get on
with my day. After all, 10 years had already passed! Who would
remember what had happened? Why should I disrupt her life with my
sudden and awkward presence? But deep down I knew that I had to do it,
because God was refining me. Immediately, I contacted a mutual friend
and asked if she could put me in touch with Kate.

Kate texted me the next day. After the introductory text message
exchange, I jumped right to the purpose of my text. In my zeal to stay
focused on the task, I stated in my message factually that I needed to
seek forgiveness from her as God had asked me to, and that I had to do
it because I wanted to live right for God. I received no reply from
her that day.

On the evening of the third day, I finally received Kate’s reply; it
was not what I had expected. In short, it was a curt reply stating
that I should only apologize when I sincerely wanted to—not because I
felt like I needed to.

I have to admit that I was taken aback by her reply. And instead of
feeling apologetic towards her, I felt anger rising from within. In my
self-righteous state, I asked God why I received such a response when
I had already obeyed Him. In my self-righteous state, I asked God why
I received such a response when I had already obeyed Him. These
thoughts continued to consume me the following day even though I knew
they were not pleasing to God. But as much as I tried to stop thinking
about them and move on from the entire incident, my efforts to do so
lasted no longer than five minutes each time.

That evening, I tried to distract myself by doing household chores.
While I was hanging laundry, the same self-righteous thoughts came
back; the thoughts became more ungodly by the second.

Suddenly, a piece of laundry fell to the ground outside the laundry
yard. The sound of the hanger hitting the ground rang in my ears and
that was when I knew that God had intervened. It was as though God had
had enough of my selfish and self-righteous reasoning, and decided to
yank me out of my downward spiral.

I froze. At that same moment, I saw the word “vain” flash across my
mind and I knew at once what God was telling me. “You shall not misuse
the name of the LORD your God, for the LORD will not hold anyone
guiltless who misuses his name.”  (Exodus 20:7)

God showed me clearly that while I told my friend that I was seeking
her forgiveness because I had wanted to please God, I had unwittingly
used His name in vain—using it to cover up for my self-righteousness.
My act of seeking forgiveness was borne out of self-righteousness
instead of a truly contrite and repentant spirit. My act of seeking
forgiveness was borne out of self-righteousness instead of a truly
contrite and repentant spirit.

I realized I had sinned, and I felt ashamed. I wanted to hide my face
from God but there was nowhere I could turn to. I did the only thing I
could―I repented of my sinful ways and thoughts. Immediately, I felt
God’s loving grace wash over me.

Some hours later, I replied to my friend’s text message, thanking her
for her reply and telling her again that I was sorry. Although I still
have yet to receive any reply from her, I trust that God will make the
situation right again in His time.

Prior to this whole incident, I had been asking God to light a fire in
my heart for Him, as I want more of Him in my life. I believe that God
heard my prayer and this whole incident happened as a result. Indeed,
wanting more of God in my life requires me to die to myself and to my
self-righteousness. While this has been one of the hardest lessons for
me to learn, God knew I needed to learn, and learn it fast.

God wants a pure heart that loves Him above all else, a pure heart
that puts others above myself, a pure heart that does things out of
love and not obligation. And I pray that God continues to refine me
each day with His loving discipline.

Search me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious
thoughts. See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the
way everlasting. (Psalm 139:23-24)

*The name has been changed to protect privacy.

