http://ymi.today/2016/09/where-can-we-find-safety-in-the-midst-of-
suicide-attacks/

Where Can We Find Safety in the Midst of Suicide Attacks?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Morentalisa Hutapea, Indonesia

Some weeks ago, in my hometown Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia, a
would-be suicide bomber charged into a church while it was holding a
Sunday service and tried to detonate his vest. By God’s grace, the
bomb failed to detonate, and the congregation was able to restrain him
and subsequently hand him over to the police.

I was shocked to learn that the 17-year-old suspect came from my high
school. This bothered me so much that I was not able to sleep that
night. It was extremely troubling to know that people around us might
be out to harm us, our families, and our churches.

Though no one was hurt, the incident prompted me to wonder where we
could find safety in this world.

For decades, North Sumatra has been home to millions of Indonesian
Christians. I come from the Batak tribe, which originated in this
province. We have the largest tribal church in Indonesia, the Batak
Christian Protestant Church. To have an attempted suicide attack in
this so-called Christian pocket shows that ultimately, no place is
safe for Christians in Indonesia.

We have been pretty fortunate. Not once has my church been bombed,
burned, closed, or destroyed, like many churches in other regions. My
worst experience with radical religious groups was when I was meeting
a representative from another religious group to discuss the rise of
radicalism. Outside the room, some members of an extremist
organization were throwing glasses and bottles and yelling.

I do not know how long we will enjoy this so-called “religious
freedom” in Medan. It is possible that suicide bombers might sneak
into my church and wreak havoc someday.

So where can we find safety? Nowhere.

And everywhere.

Many people go to great lengths to obtain a sense of security, such as
working hard to ensure their financial security. And because we dread
losing it, some of us may refuse to take risks in following God or
serving others. We are imprisoned by this false illusion of safety,
and end up moving nowhere.

But safety is temporary. We have no clue when evil might turn our
world upside down or threaten our safety. I’ve realized that we cannot
guarantee our safety no matter where we are on earth.

We have this comfort, however: safety can be found everywhere as well.

True safety can only be found in God’s presence. It is the assurance
that whatever difficulties we encounter in life, God’s power will be
there to sustain us. It is the assurance that whatever difficulties we
encounter in life, God’s power will be there to sustain us. Paul
understood this when he wrote to the church in Phillipi, saying, “I
can do all things through him who gives me strength.” (Philippians
4:13)

We should not be chasing the idol of safety by sacrificing the
important things in life: knowing God, serving others, doing good,
making peace, and making disciples. We only have one life, and there’s
no telling when this life will be over. So let’s spend this temporary
life to love God and love people.

Recently, a dear brother of Christ whom I consider as my own brother
passed away due to an accident. He was a smart, nice, godly, talented
young man with a promising career ahead. His death came as a shock to
all of us.

In the days following his death, we shared about our last moments with
him. I was immensely encouraged to learn that he had spent the last
days of his life reminding his closest friends and family about God
and missions. Although his life on earth was cut short by this
accident, this friend of mine had finished his race well.

Having been reminded of the fragility of life, I cannot help but
wonder if I’m living my life the way God intends.

Before our perceived safety is threatened by the next suicide bomber
or some other incident, let us ask ourselves: are we doing our very
best to obey Jesus’ commandments? Do we love God and love others as
ourselves (Matthew 22:37-38)?

