http://ymi.today/2016/08/4-benefits-of-being-weak/

4 Benefits of Being Weak

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ching, Singapore

Every society aspires to be successful or strong. In my tiny city-
state, that has meant a constant effort to survive and to find
stability and security over the past 50 years.

But while most societies and individuals make success their end goal,
not everyone is able to attain it. There are many reasons why this is
the case. Working in the social services sector, I meet many people
who may never “make it” in life because of their physical condition
(disabilities and illnesses), past experiences (broken relationships,
trauma and abuse), or environment (poverty).

But for most of us, it could simply be because we don’t have “what it
takes”. In my case, I just never wanted nor was pressured to pursue
success. Perhaps it’s because I never tasted it: I never could ace my
studies, never had any job promotions, and never won any awards.

Being in such positions of “weakness” is not necessarily a bad thing,
however. As someone who is familiar with what it means to be weak, I
have learned from experience the blessings that weakness can bring.

Over and over again in the Bible, we read of numerous individuals who
were given privileged positions by God not because of their abilities
or skills.

The first two kings of Israel, Saul and David, did not seek elections,
boost their portfolios, or give enticing speeches to prove that they
had the mettle to be king. Instead, it was God who chose them and
anointed them through Samuel the prophet. (1 Samuel 9:15-16, 1 Samuel
16:1)

Although Saul came from a well-to-do family, there was nothing
extraordinary about him. David started off as a humble shepherd and
certainly wasn’t the first choice candidate of both Jesse (David’s
father) and Samuel. Samuel thought Eliab was a good choice (1 Samuel
16:6), and Jesse didn’t even consider David at first—maybe because too
young (1 Samuel 16:11). But God clearly had David in mind to be
Israel’s next king.

When we know we didn’t get something on our own merit, we will be able
to see clearly that it came from God.

The two kings ended their journey very differently however. When Saul
witnessed David’s success against Goliath, His insecurity grew and
manifested itself in his attempts to murder David. Years later, Saul
was defeated in battle. Although he started off well, his ego
eventually “Edged God Out”, leading him to squander and abuse his God-
appointed leadership role for his own purposes, instead of God’s.

David’s ego (or lack of), on the other hand, “Enlarged God Only”, and
was known as a man after God’s heart. Unlike Saul, he did not waste
God’s anointing and appointment of him as the leader of the nation. He
followed God wholeheartedly and sought to achieve God’s purposes for
the nation.

When we constantly remember that it is God who gives us all we have,
we will be able to be good stewards of these gifts, and use them in
accordance to how He intends for us. Let’s follow His call for us to
be “a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his
own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who
called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.” (1 Pet 2:9)

King David wasn’t perfect throughout his reign. He messed up several
times when he indulged his ego by taking a census of his people in
violation of God’s command (2 Samuel 24:10-17), and gave in to fleshly
temptations by lusting after Bathsheba and ordering the assassination
of her husband Uriah  (2 Samuel 11:2-17).

But when David realized that he had failed, he repented. The Psalms he
wrote were filled with anguish, brokenness, and failures. And it was
in these moments that David realized that God was always there, that
He was David’s Shepherd and Shield. In David’s failures, God’s
faithfulness was magnified. These Psalms continue to minister to
people across the generations.

And despite David’s shortcomings, God chose him to be a forebear of
the coming Messiah. David would play a part in the great salvation
plan.

When we recognize how sinful we are, we will realize the immense
faithfulness of God. Even in our failures, God is with us and redeems
us.

Matthew worked for the Roman government as a tax collector. He was
probably widely hated or despised, because many tax collectors
collected “extra taxes” which ended up in their own pockets. Tax
collectors were outcasts and shunned by people.

But his weakness—not being a social or moral success in society—was
precisely what drew Jesus to him. When Jesus saw Matthew sitting at
his tax-collecting booth, He called out to him to follow Him and be
His disciple. Matthew did and later, had dinner with Jesus and the
other “sinners” in town. When the Pharisees and the teachers of the
law complained that Jesus was eating with sinners, Jesus answered
them, “It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick . . . For
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.” (Matthew 9:12-13)

When we find ourselves being deemed lowly in the eyes of the world,
we’re best placed to hear God’s call and be used by Him.



My friends and I are help professionals or are serving in full-time
Christian ministry in pastoral roles, ministering daily to all kinds
of people. One thing we all have in common is the utterly broken and
messed-up lives we had before we met Jesus. Some of my friends were
gangsters and rebels; some have attempted suicide, struggled with
mental and physical illnesses, had been abused, or had traumatic
childhoods.

But Jesus redeemed our lives, and healed us spiritually so that we can
share His grace with others. To live and work together daily among
such broken vessels, I can only marvel at God’s transforming love and
grace to us, allowing us to be “wounded” healers for Him.

Ultimately, knowing that we are indeed weak can make us more reliant
on God, and more useful to Him. Our daily posture of weakness allows
God to work on us, transforming us to become more like His son (Rom
8:29). Let us rely on God daily and confidently say, “The Lord is the
strength of my heart (Psalm 73:26)”.

