http://ymi.today/2016/02/my-brief-encounter-with-adoniram-judson/

My Brief Encounter with Adoniram Judson

Author: by Contributor

Written By Benedict Tan, Malaysia

I had not heard of Adoniram Judson until I came across the biography
about him, “Adoniram Judson: How Few There Are Who Die So Hard!” by
Bible teacher and theologian John Piper. Intrigued, I decided to read
about this “obscure” missionary that Piper had taken time to write
about. It was then that I found out that Adoniram was the first
American Protestant missionary to preach the gospel in Myanmar.

Adoniram was born in 1788 and started out on a promising footing. He
was raised by godly parents and entered Brown University as a
sophomore aged 16. He graduated at the top of his class three years
later. But it was also during this period of his life that he was
lured away from the Christian faith by a fellow student.

His journey back to the faith began one night at a village inn. In the
room next to where he was staying, he heard the groans of a dying man.
He later found out that the man who had passed away was in effect the
friend who had led him away from Christ! It was a rude awakening that
caused Adoniram to reflect on his own life, and after many months of
struggle, he committed his life to God.

On July 13, 1813, he and his newly-wedded wife went to Rangoon. That
began “a life-long battle in the 108-degree heat with cholera,
malaria, dysentery, [imprisonment] and unknown miseries that would
take two of his wives and seven of his thirteen children, and
colleague after colleague in death.”

Suffering appeared to be the main theme of Adoniram’s life, but it is
not a word we like to hear. Most of us are comfortable where we are in
life, with a good family, stability in studies or work, good friends,
and a church where we feel comfortable in. Why would anyone want to
give all these up for a difficult life in a foreign land? And yet,
Piper writes that “God designs that the suffering of his ministers and
missionaries is one essential means in the joyful, triumphant spread
of the gospel among all the peoples of the world.”

I felt jolted and challenged by Piper’s book. I was amazed by the fact
that six years passed before Adoniram and his wife baptized their
first convert in Myanmar. It served both as an encouragement and a
rebuke to me, as I recalled how tempted I had been to give up on
evangelism after just a few tries.

It was interesting to read that Adoniram himself also had doubts in
the gospel at certain points of his life. After the death of his wife
and first daughter, Piper recorded that “self-doubt overtook his mind,
and he wondered if he had become a missionary for ambition and fame,
not humility and self-denying love.” He tried to lead an ascetic life,
choosing to live in isolation and asking for his salary to be
drastically reduced. And in spiritual despair he wrote at one point,
“God is to me the Great Unknown. I believe in him, but I find him
not.”

Despite the suffering Adoniram had to face and his battle with sin,
however, God kept him serving in the mission field faithfully and
gradually led Adoniram out of the darkness of desolation to hope and
glory in the transforming power of the gospel. Piper noted that “the
main legacy of his 38 years in Burma was a complete translation of the
Bible into Burmese and a dictionary that all the later missionaries
could use.” Piper also recorded that “today there are close to about
3700 congregations of Baptists in Myanmar who trace their origin to
this man’s labours of love.”

In telling the story of Adoniram Judson, Piper strips away any
preconceived notion of “glamor” about missions and shows us that it is
painful and ugly. In telling the story of Adoniram Judson, Piper
strips away any preconceived notion of “glamor” about missions and
shows us that it is painful and ugly. Missionaries may even die for
their mission. Yet, Piper argues, dying is worth it. It is worth it
because evangelizing to the nations is part of God’s mission. I found
this a hard idea to stomach, and was forced to ask myself if I had
made comfort and security my idols, and whether I was willing to die
for the gospel. I finished the book shedding a tear or two.

Are you considering going on a mission or becoming a missionary? Do
you find the idea of missions too abstract and distant? I would like
to encourage you to read this biography and be inspired by Adoniram’s
life. (Download the free eBook here.) May you also be challenged by
Piper’s words: “The question for us is not whether we will die, but
whether we will die in a way that bears much fruit.”

