http://ymi.today/2015/07/a-letter-to-my-future-self/

A Letter To My Future Self

Author: by Alwin Thomas

Written By Alwin Thomas, Singapore

Dear Future Self,

Hey! Hello there! Howdy doo! Yes, I need to remind you that you are
still weird—that’s my obligation as your past. You are welcome.

How have you been? Do you still remember what you were like in 2015,
other than utterly broke from studying overseas? (I sincerely hope you
are much better at budgeting and living frugally now.) If you don’t,
let me fill you in on the details.

At the ripe age of 22, you managed to accumulate for yourself a
healthy sum of cluelessness about your future, a bountiful amount of
irrational fears about your present, and a scrumptious platter of
regrets from your past. Not exactly resume-worthy, I’m sure you’d
agree.

Do you know how annoying you were? You were indecisive about
everything, you were not willing to put your foot down, and you were
not ready to take ownership of the decisions in your life. But do you
know what your biggest problem was?

Your selfishness.

Oh, you thought I was going to go all soft on you and say something
sympathetic like “Being afraid of getting hurt”, or “Always the victim
of bad experiences in life”? Please, we’ve heard all those excuses
before.

You were so selfish. All you cared about was yourself. For as much
time you spent helping other people and listening to the rants and
woes of your friends, you were secretly wishing in your heart that
they would reciprocate that care and concern. And when they didn’t,
you felt hurt and betrayed.

I know this sounds harsh, mate, but the point here is: I really hope
this realization takes you forward rather than backwards. Acknowledge
your problem and work on it, but don’t beat yourself up over it. And
more importantly, I hope you have found the assurance that no matter
how bad you think you are or were, and no matter how bad your
situation might still be, you are no less loved by God Himself.

You might have once been a silly boy, so caught up with himself, his
own needs, and his own insecurities. But I earnestly hope with all my
heart that you have learned to sincerely love other people, to give of
yourself fully, and to be committed to helping and supporting others
as Christ has for you, with no strings attached.

I really hope that you’ve come to recognize how amazing God’s love
is—not just for you, but also for His people. I hope this motivates
and inspires you to simply obey Him and share His love!

May you never forget that God is the source of your love and strength.
Whenever you feel like you’ve got nothing of worth to give, may you
look upon the cross and remember the price He paid so that you can
live a life that brings glory to Him and joy to yourself.



Yours sincerely, Your past self

EDITOR’S NOTE: What would your letter to your future self be? Share
your thoughts in the comments section!



Alwin loves deep and meaningful conversations. That love is rivaled
with his affection for cats and most things fruffy. Yes, fruffy. He
firmly believes that God is ever present, even though some times life
can get really tough. He also believes that music is an important part
of life, for it is able to express what often is left unspoken.
Oooooh, deep.



