http://ymi.today/2017/06/pornography-you-can-break-free/

Pornography: You Can Break Free

Author: by Contributor

Written by Stacy Joy, USA

October 3, 2012, is a day my husband Andrew and I will never forget.
On the same day every year, we dress up, go out to a fancy restaurant,
and celebrate a unique anniversary: Andrew’s freedom from the chains
of almost two decades of addiction to pornography.

You heard that right—freedom is possible, friends. But breaking free
from the enticement of pornography truly is a war. I’ve heard
counselors say that it is harder to break free from pornography than
cocaine.

Andrew’s complete break came after four years of struggle. He had
turned to mentors for support, installed programs on his computer to
block websites, and tried everything he could to end his addiction.

One of his biggest motivating factors to end his addiction was our
relationship. We were dating at the time and it dawned on him how much
pornography already had and would continue to damage me as well as the
marriage we were planning to pursue together. I know he truly hated
all the pain it caused me: I was deeply concerned that my future
spouse would compare me physically and sexually to the images he had
ingrained in his mind for years, and his addiction had also planted
seeds of distrust within me—I wasn’t sure if he would be able to keep
his eyes from wandering when I was absent, or even when I was around.
I sought much counsel on whether we should continue to pursue marriage
or put the brakes on our relationship.

I praise God that Andrew was eventually able to stop—and it was only
truly because the Lord enabled him to do so. There’s no other way to
explain how he managed the seemingly impossible. He is now a pastor
and has been able to speak into the lives of many surrounding us
regarding his previous struggles, encouraging them that they, too, can
have victory.

I know that Andrew’s story of struggle is not rare. The use of
pornography is prolific. We may think that it affects adult men only,
but it is in fact a struggle for both men and women—one-third of
visitors to pornographic sites are women—and an even higher number are
younger people. Studies show that the largest consumer base of online
pornography is made up of 12 to 17-year olds.

Another heart-breaking reality is that Christians are no less
susceptible: Nearly half of all Christian households face a severe
problem with pornography.

As a pastor’s wife and counselor-in-training, I have counseled many
people regarding their struggle with pornography; all of them, without
exception, were exposed to it before the age of 10.

But am I being a bit too rigid? What’s so bad about pornography? you
may be thinking. After all, sexuality is a beautiful gift that was
fashioned by God himself. Isn’t it a part of His perfect creation that
the Bible describes as a gift to be cherished? Yes, absolutely! But
there are also many warnings in Scripture regarding the abuse of
sexuality. Ephesians 5:3 warns us to not even have “a hint” of sexual
immorality in our lives, while 1 Thessalonians 4:3 warns that sexual
immorality will affect a believer’s sanctification, as it will hinder
our ability to grow into the likeness of Jesus. Since we are to
glorify God with our lives, we need to take the sin of pornography
seriously.

As my husband and I counsel and meet with many couples and young
adults, we’ve observed (and research confirms) that the use of
pornography lies at the root of well over half of failed marriages.
Some studies have also said that it increases the chances of
infidelity by three times, and I would venture to guess that this is
because of the insatiable desire that pornography creates. Users
always want more—more options, more danger, more of the forbidden,
more body types, etc. Having a lifelong partner in marriage is a gift
from God, but pornography affects the ability of a person to see that
gift as precious and “enough”. Having a lifelong partner in marriage
is a gift from God, but pornography affects the ability of a person to
see that gift as precious and “enough”.

How does one begin breaking the hold of pornography on his or her
life? Any attempt to break this bondage has to begin with a heart
fully surrendered to Christ, ready to obey no matter what the cost.

In an article about fighting the temptation of pornography, Christian
counselor Ed Welch notes, “Power doesn’t come from mere knowledge; it
comes as we grow in the knowledge of God and respond to him with
obedient trust. It comes only as we discover that in God’s
presence—not from what the world or fleshly pleasure can offer—do we
find fullness of joy and pleasures that never lose their capacity to
satisfy (Ps. 16:11).” We must trust God that what He has to offer is
more glorious and fulfilling than anything the world has to
offer—including pornography.

Another step we must take is to share our deepest struggles with
someone we trust, for both accountability and support. Welch explains
the importance of community in this battle: “We could easily argue our
sin is private, it’s against God, and it should be handled privately.
But if we easily confess to God yet refuse to confess to others, the
authenticity of our confession is suspect. Openness is a way we can
avoid being tricked by new justifications.”

If you’re struggling with some type of sexual addiction, find someone
who will hold you accountable—not the type of person who pats you on
the back because you “only looked twice this week instead of five
times”, but someone who cares enough about you to ask you the hard
questions.

I have talked to people I dearly love who speak of going to bed for
years crying out to God to help, but hearing no answer. Their despair
leads them deeper and deeper into depression, and they believe that
they will never be able to have a fulfilling, God-glorifying marriage
or life. By God’s grace, they have since broken free from the
addiction and are now thriving in godly marriages and are
intentionally helping others who struggle. Satan wants you to believe
that deliverance is never going to be within your reach. Do not let
the lies of the enemy win the battle of pornography in your life.
Satan wants you to believe that deliverance is never going to be
within your reach. Do not let the lies of the enemy win the battle of
pornography in your life. Do not give up hope—for we serve the
Almighty God, who created the Heavens and Earth, for whom nothing is
impossible (Luke 1:37).

The beauty that could await you someday within your current marriage,
in a future marriage if you are single, or in joy and peace within
obedience as a single, is tangible and available. Having been married
for almost four years now, I can honestly and happily say that we have
never had a more content, fun and satisfying sex life. Praise to our
God of redemption!

I pray that you too will soon have a day to look back on and
celebrate, just as Andrew and I do. Be vigilant in this war and always
remember that you can boldly come to Jesus’ throne of grace, knowing
you will receive mercy and find grace in times of need (Heb 4:16).

