http://ymi.today/2015/10/when-i-think-of-my-successful-friends/

When I Think of My Successful Friends

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lily Lin, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

Since young, I’ve had the privilege of having friends with brilliant
minds who went on to achieve enviable success in school and at work.
Many of them graduated from prestigious schools and are now holding
well-paying positions as computer engineers, doctors, lawyers, judges,
and financial experts. Some even went on to do their doctorates at
well-known institutions and are now doing research or teaching at
leading universities.

When I think of them, I notice that they have one thing in common:
every single one of them is earnest, diligent, disciplined, and
persevering. They are living proof of what inspirational author Jim
Rohn once said: “Success is not to be pursued; it is to be attracted
by the person you become.” It has been a tremendous blessing to have
such talented friends at each stage of my life.

Whenever I am discouraged or tempted to be lazy in my work or
ministry, the example of these friends spurs me on. They also remind
me of the Apostle Paul, a man who was totally dedicated to the gospel
and who used whatever he had to spread the Word of Christ and bring
people to the Lord (Colossians 1:28-29).

Of course we must remember and recognize that each of us has different
talents, went through different education paths, and grew up in
different environments. This means that even if all of us put in the
same amount of effort, some people will achieve greater success than
others. If we focus only on the benefits of success, we could become
bitter that we do not enjoy the same talents and resources as these
people do, and become envious of their success. But if we view each
person’s talents and resources as gifts entrusted to them and
understand that success is not tied to individual happiness, our
response will change entirely. But if we view each person’s talents
and resources as gifts entrusted to them and understand that success
is not tied to individual happiness, our response will change
entirely.

In the Parable of the Talents (Matthew 25), Jesus said that the
kingdom of heaven is like a man who divides his property among his
servants to manage, according to their abilities, before going on a
journey. One servant gets five talents, another gets two, and a third
gets one. The first two faithfully exercise their abilities and earn
an extra five and two talents respectively, while the third doesn’t
earn anything. What’s interesting is that although the two first
servants get different amounts, the master’s response to both of them
are exactly the same: “Well done, good and faithful servant! You have
been faithful with a few things; I will put you in charge of many
things. Come and share your master’s happiness!” (Matthew 25:21, 23)

Everything we possess is given by God, and one day, we must account to
Him about how we use what we have been given. So we need to use our
resources wisely and make the most of our talents, so that we might
share what we have with others for the glory of God. How clever we are
or how much we have is not important, and neither is the kind of
success we achieve in the end.

As Micah 6:8 says, “He has shown you, O mortal, what is good. And what
does the LORD require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to
walk humbly with your God.” I hope and pray that each of us can
achieve the kind of success God desires for us on life’s stage.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Success“

