http://ymi.today/2015/05/jesus-and-the-rohingya-refugees/

Jesus and the Rohingya Refugees

Author: by Wendy Wong

Imagine being stranded at sea for more than a month without food and
water. Packed into boats with hundreds of others, and with dwindling
supplies, you have to drink urine in order to survive. The dead are
thrown overboard. That is exactly what some 2,000 refugees are facing
in the Bay of Bengal now.

The refugees are Rohingyas from Myanmar and Bangladesh, an ethnic
group, who have been the subject of what the United Nations has
described as “human ping pong.”

Regional governments had initially refused to take the migrants in,
pushing them out of their territorial waters. Last week, however, the
governments of Indonesia and Malaysia agreed to provide temporary
shelter for 7,000 to 8,000 of them, provided that they be resettled or
repatriated within a year.

These refugees have been adrift at sea because governments in the
region haven’t decided who should take responsibility for their care.
Today (29 May), a meeting with officials from countries in the region
will gather in Thailand to discuss the “root causes” of the migrant
crisis.

What can we do?

To solve this refugee crisis, two things need to be done: provide
immediate help to those stranded at sea; and address the root problem
of their plight and the criminal networks profiting from it.

As Christians, we can pray for the regional leaders attending today’s
meeting, for productive discussions and meaningful resolutions to be
made, and for coordination between the countries. We should also pray
for compassion and accommodation towards the Rohingyas.

Most importantly, we should pray for the refugees at sea—for speedy
and successful search and rescue missions, for them to find a safe and
secure home, and ultimately, for them to find spiritual salvation in
our Lord Jesus Christ one day.

Because Jesus knows exactly what they’re going through.

Jesus, the refugee

Jesus, too, was a refugee in His time, facing persecution throughout
His life.

As a child, His parents were forced to flee to Egypt when King Herod
ordered the massacre of all young boys in Bethlehem, where his family
lived. And later on, He would be spat upon, flogged, and crucified; He
would be despised, criticized, and ultimately, put to death.

Jesus understands how it feels like to face oppression, to be unwanted
and shunned, and to have “no place to lay His head” (Luke 9:58). The
Rohingyas have a Savior who can empathize with them, and who can save
them—both body and soul.

So let us remember them in our prayers, and commit them to our Lord
and Savior.

Then they cried out to the Lord in their trouble, and he brought them
out of their distress. He stilled the storm to a whisper; the waves of
the sea were hushed. They were glad when it grew calm, and he guided
them to their desired haven. Psalm 107:28-30 (NIV)

Who are the Rohingyas?

The Muslim ethnic group in Myanmar is thought to have descended from
Muslim traders who settled there more than a thousand years ago.

Many of them have been displaced by ongoing ethnic, socio-economic and
political tensions in the country.

According to the United Nations, more than 120,000 Rohingyas have left
their homeland over the past three years. Their desperation has made
them vulnerable to human traffickers, who profit from their plight by
smuggling them by sea to Thailand, and then on land to Malaysia.

In May, abandoned camps with more than a hundred graves were found
along the Thai-Malaysian border. Authorities believe that the refugees
were held for ransom in jungle camps by trafficking gangs, with some
Rohingyas allegedly tortured in “human cages” made of wood and barbed
wire.

After the gruesome discovery, Thailand began cracking down on the
smuggling routes. Traffickers then abandoned the boats at sea, leaving
thousands of men, women, and children adrift with no help or hope.

Photo credit: Steve Gumaer / Foter / CC BY-NC



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



