http://ymi.today/2017/05/praying-for-whose-ears/

Praying: For whose ears?

Author: by Wendy Wong

Photo by Terry Bidgood

Palms sweaty, heart racing, mind on overdrive.

No, it’s not nervousness over an impending exam or presentation, but,
well . . . praying with others.

Even though I grew up in a “culturally Christian” family, I had never
really prayed with others before. The closest I had come to it was
muttering a quick prayer before the occasional celebratory family meal
to give thanks for the food.

But for the most part, I saw prayer as a one-on-one, personal
conversation between me and my Father—my whispered words for His ears
alone. So, after I truly accepted Jesus as my Lord and Savior and
joined a small family church where praying with those around us was a
common practice, I was both intrigued and terrified.

I had never heard people talking to God out loud before, and doing so
felt like I was spying on a secret conversation. While I was
comfortable observing them, I would clam up whenever it was my turn.

I remember one occasion in particular: I was painfully stuttering
through a prayer with two older people I’d just been acquainted with,
my eyes scrunched up in concentration and cheeks warm. I felt stupid
for not knowing how to pray, and mortified at how stilted my prayer
was compared to theirs; my words sounded thick and clunky coming out
of my mouth.

Over time, as I listened to the prayers of others, I couldn’t help but
notice how they prayed. Some stammered, generously sprinkling filler
words like “um” and “like” throughout their prayers; others were
capable of reciting concise summaries of sermons we’d just heard in a
perfectly packaged prayer. Some prayed like a bullet train, spurting
out clipped words in a single breath, while others meandered wherever
their thoughts took them. Some prayed with boredom tinging their
voices, others prayed with emotion quivering at the back of their
throats.

I marveled at my best friend’s eloquent prayers, richly adorned with
descriptive language and generously furnished with Bible verses. I
envied her easy confidence and poignant words, which felt like a much
more pleasing prayer to the Lord’s ears than my own—or so I imagined.

As I listened to them, I began to pick up expressions and phrases to
incorporate in my own articulated prayers, as if collecting shiny
baubles to deck my petitions to God with. Without knowing it, I became
overly conscious of what I sounded like in the ears of others—and even
critical and condescending as I began to judge other people’s prayers
against my own.

One Sunday, I had the opportunity to pray with a sister a couple of
years younger than me. She was a small, unassuming, and quiet girl
whom I hardly knew. Even though she came from a Mandarin-speaking
background and wasn’t fluent in English, her prayer was beautiful. She
prayed to the Lord earnestly and simply, with short sentences, in a
tone of complete reverence and humility. And even though she spoke
with few words, I could hear and feel her love for God.

Right then, I felt ashamed of my own prayer, which, though gracefully
delivered, didn’t come from an intimate or authentic place I felt
ashamed of my own prayer, which, though gracefully delivered, didn’t
come from an intimate or authentic place . Instead, it was motivated
by a subconscious desire to be found praying the “right” way, and to
sound and appear holy and perfect, as I assumed Christians ought to
be. As I learnt to participate in corporate prayer, I had unknowingly
mistaken my primary audience to be my fellow brothers and sisters. I
had forgotten that while praying with others can be one way to edify
and encourage them, it shouldn’t be the main motivation behind praying
with others. This sweet, young sister-in-Christ made me realize that
no oratory prowess can compare to a humble prayer uttered from a
genuine and contrite spirit.

Jesus made it clear that He isn’t impressed by eloquent prayers that
exalt Him on the surface but indirectly exalt the person praying
(Matthew 6:5-13; 23:5-12). Rather, He is pleased with and accepts the
prayers of those who call upon His name in repentance (Luke 18:10-14).

Today, I have learned to pray slowly and thoughtfully, and to murmur
simple, heartfelt words directed solely for the ears of my Father in
Heaven while in the presence of others. After all, our prayers are
ultimately for God’s ears, who alone hears and answers according to
His perfect will and in His perfect time.



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



