http://ymi.today/2017/02/quitting-my-job-for-nepal/

Quitting my Job for Nepal

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jea Ng, Singapore

I remember distinctly the speaker’s call that Sunday: give one year of
your life to missions. It was during the “missions month” in my
church. I knew without a doubt that God was prompting me to make that
commitment, but I did not have the courage to step forward in front of
all my church members. With tears of surrender, I told God privately
in my heart, “Lord, I want to give you one year in missions, here am
I, send me.” It was 19 September 2010.

Fast forward to 2014. I was at the 4½-year mark in my job as a Social
Service Planner in a Statutory Board. I was doing well in my career
and had just gotten a promotion. Overall, life was comfortable and
there were even times I felt like I didn’t need God in my life.

That was when the prayer I had made came back to me. I knew that if I
wanted to “save” my faith, I had to “lose” and leave all that I had—my
country, my home, my family, my job, and my life. So I clung to
Matthew 16:25 and decided to fulfil my promise to God and experience
Him anew.

In short, after praying, seeking godly counsel, reading up about the
country as well as meeting with experienced missionaries, I decided to
commit a year in Nepal.

At the missions conference I attended before heading to Nepal, there
was talk about the risk of an earthquake. This worried me, and I
didn’t have peace about going. But God assured me over and over again
with the words from 2 Timothy 1:7-8 that He hadn’t given me a spirit
of timidity, but of power. He reaffirmed my decision to go, and I
became certain that He would be with me.

Eventually, I spent 1½ years in Nepal. Over that period, my eyes were
opened to a whole new world. I saw people living in remote villages
where they had to cook with firewood and plant their own food for
survival. I also experienced many things for the first time—most
notably, the harrowing earthquake that hit Nepal on 25 April 2015 and
its regular aftershocks. It was an experience that strengthened my
faith in God. I will never forget the sight I witnessed of the Nepali
believers at church calling upon God’s name, while the building was
swaying—none of them moved from their positions.

I also learned to speak Nepali, trek for hours up mountains to
distribute Christian literature to remote villages, live in places
without electricity and gas, sleep with rats, and endure hundreds of
bed bug bites. On top of all that, there were also emotional
challenges like grieving over the death of my grandfather.

To be honest, if I’d known what I was getting myself into at the
start, I wouldn’t have dared to step out. To be honest, if I’d known
what I was getting myself into at the start, I wouldn’t have dared to
step out. It was truly God’s hand of protection that saw me through
these challenges. He was with me and encouraged me through His Word.

Coming home after 1½ years, I struggled to reconcile the two worlds I
had seen—Nepal and Singapore. Nepal wasn’t my home, but now, Singapore
also didn’t feel like home either. But maybe that’s what it should be.
As strangers and aliens in this world, we shouldn’t be feeling too at
home or too comfortable where we are.

I would not exchange this experience for anything else, because it
taught me to step out of my comfort zone, and that’s when I
experienced what it meant to wholly depend on God.

It is when we have nothing, that we realize He is everything.

