http://ymi.today/2016/10/gods-will-isnt-found-in-books/

God’s Will Isn’t Found in Books

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ana Chavarria, USA

As Christians, we are known for believing that we are to follow what
the Bible tells us to do. Sometimes, this gives others the impression
that we serve a God who has an unending list of commands that we need
to follow.

The reality is quite the opposite. In many aspects of our lives, the
Bible does not give us rigid instructions on what we should do.
Instead, God gives us guidelines—and the freedom to choose how we want
to live our lives.

For instance, the Bible does not have an explicit set of rules on
dating. As a result, many of us tend to turn to books about “how-to-
date-the-godly-way” for guidelines about relationships.

When I was 14 years old, someone passed me a book on dating which
became everything to me. I tried to follow everything it said to a
tee. I forgot that while it offered some valuable lessons that came
from the Bible, it was not the Bible. Instead, I mistakenly took the
Bible verses given by the author as validation that all his “rules on
dating” were from God. I remember that the book kept repeating that
“courtship” was the only godly way to start a relationship, and that
“dating” was not purposeful and could lead to sinful acts. By
courtship, he meant not going out just as a couple, always having a
chaperone around, and keeping the physical contact to holding hands.
Dating, to him, was more of an exclusive relationship. It made sense
when I read the author’s experience with courtship and how it worked
out for him.

As a result, I grew up thinking that dating was basically a sin and it
was wrong to express my feelings to someone. I ended up keeping all my
feelings within and this gave me a lot of unnecessary stress.

When I started attending college, I befriended people who were in very
godly and healthy relationships. I started to question my beliefs
about dating and realized they had a very weak foundation. I wasn’t so
sure anymore. All around me, I heard great stories of how God led my
friends to the right person in different ways. It was like seeing for
the first time that God works in a personal way.

That’s when I realized that what might have worked for the author of
that book might not work for me, or for somebody else. what might have
worked for the author of that book might not work for me, or for
somebody else. Perhaps that’s why we sometimes get frustrated trying
to abide doggedly by a set of steps that are said to lead to “godly
living”. When we do that, we may not be allowing the Holy Spirit to
guide our lives in a personal way.

Christian books and biblical counsel can provide guidance and answers
to questions often asked in the Christian life. But they can also
distract Christians from the most important thing—our personal
relationship with God. If we are really seeking His face every day, He
is going to show us His way for us individually.

Think of it this way: there are many books on dating, and each book is
going to say what the author has learned about the subject. How do you
know for sure which one is absolutely right, and which one to follow?
Each author has a unique set of struggles which brought him or her to
the place he or she is at now. It was that experience which made him
or her write a book full of life lessons and advice for Christians.

Today, I am dating a guy who lives and glorifies God in everything he
does. And that makes me want to be a better person every day. It’s an
amazing experience to be able to journey together with the one you
love towards God.

That said, God has different plans for each one of us. Christian life
is not about determining who does it better or trying to model after
others; it’s about letting go of yourself and letting God take over
your life. You will be surprised by what He is able to do. Trust in
Him and He will lead you to the path He has planned just for you!

“If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples. Then you
will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.”—John 8:31b-32

