http://ymi.today/2017/12/isnt-my-job-supposed-to-mean-something/

Isn’t My Job Supposed To Mean Something?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Q. Jackson, USA

Over a year ago, I found myself worn out and exhausted—greatly taxed
from a job that didn’t seem to give much in return for my effort.

My personality type thrives in a super-fast paced, dynamic, ever-
changing environment where efficiency and innovation are not just
helpful for the job, but absolutely vital for survival. Because of
this, I was really good at my job. Opportunities opened up for me and
I was moving up quickly. During the work day, I didn’t have time to
think about how it was wearing on me. It was on the commute home that
the full impact of the day would hit me.

I was spending my days working for a company that existed solely to
sue individuals for money they owed. I was pouring my time and talent
into a purpose I didn’t support. Quickly, the days were piling into
weeks and months and building towards years. I knew that if I did not
intentionally make a change, I would keep working there. I wrestled
with this realization regularly, but the dawn of each new work day
yanked me back into the blinding rhythm.



Because we have more access than ever before to what happens all
around the world, our perspectives about who we are and how we fit in
shift. Having grown up in an increasingly globalized world, I
certainly wanted to spend every day making a positive impact in this
broken world.

The generation currently joining the workforce has had more visual
exposure to the hurts and realities around the world than any previous
generation. How could we not try to find jobs where we can make a
difference? Desiring to make a difference is good.

My mistake was when I drew up specific expectations about what
“meaning” in my job looked like, instead of looking to God to show me.
My mistake was believing that my days couldn’t be meaningful enough
because I worked in a money-hungry law office. Even so, God is the
patient author of our story. He placed me where I was for a reason,
and He was gracious enough to show me why.



Over time, I learned that many of my tasks, though demanding, were not
all mentally taxing in nature. I could handle some of them while I
also engaged my office-mate in conversation. So, I started sharing
thoughts and meditations about God and Christianity that were on my
heart. I trust that God orchestrated many of our conversations. It
seemed that when I was willing to obediently share my testimony of
God’s work in my life, He took care of guiding the conversation where
it needed to go.

Eventually, God was opening doors for conversation about purpose and
the meaning of our existence, about hardships in life and the evil
that exists in our world. I got to boldly explain the hope that I have
in Christ, and how He stands as my advocate so our good God can look
on Christ’s perfection instead of my sin. My office-mate was not shy
in asking questions. Forty hours a week with a person trapped in your
office is a fine place to “do ministry.” So, there it was: God showed
me meaning.

Understanding how I could find meaning where I was did not discourage
me from continuing to look for a different occupation. I still had a
sense that this wasn’t where I was supposed to be long-term. However,
my new-found understanding did transform my attitude. I no longer
looked at work the same. The way I prayed about work changed. My goals
at work changed. The work and the position were still exhausting. Some
weeks, the weight of my workload prohibited lengthy conversations.
However, in the midst of the weariness and the busyness, I clung to
the truth that God had a plan for it all, and my part was to listen to
His guidance and act when He led me.



I would argue that most jobs, at least to some degree, involve other
people. Other people should be our focus, and sharing Christ with the
world should be where we find meaning. Maybe you have a job where you
can strike up meaningful conversation with a co-worker. Do it. Maybe
you have a job where your attitude is your greatest witness. Be a
light! Regardless of what you do, where you work, or what occupation
God has placed you in, it should be meaningful. If we don’t get so
wrapped up in our own ideas of what “meaning” looks like, and when we
pray for God to open our eyes to the Spirit’s work around us, He will
use us for His kingdom work!

I had an incredibly meaningful job at a spiritually dark law office.
Starting there helped me to develop a tendency to search out meaning,
whether or not it’s an expectation of my occupation. If I were to rely
on my job title, or even my field of work to make me feel like I’m
having a positive impact, I probably would not have a very positive
impact at all. Instead, I find it is best to search for meaning in
relationships, conversation, and service to others. That applies in
every aspect of my life, not just my job.



Eventually, I did receive a job offer elsewhere. But after investing
deeply in ministry at the law office, I felt torn about leaving. In
one sense, it was very obvious that I needed to leave. I knew that if
I were to stay, the ever-growing job demands would continue to grind
me down, and that the wear would seep into my life outside of work. It
was a clear choice for me to leave, but it was also very hard choice
for me. I spent years trying to focus on investing in relationships
there, but now it came time for me to leave those relationships. I
found solace in a passage in 1 Corinthians, written by the apostle
Paul:

What, after all, is Apollos? And what is Paul? Only servants, through
whom you came to believe—as the Lord has assigned to each his task. I
planted the seed, Apollos watered it, but God has been making it grow.
So neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but
only God, who makes things grow. (1 Corinthians 3:5-7)

In this passage, Paul emphasizes that he and his fellow servant,
Apollos, were co-workers in God’s field. We may work in the field to
plant seeds or water them, but ultimately, it is God who actually
grows the plants. This reminded me that we all have a part to play in
God’s kingdom, and though I may never see the plant grow in the lives
of my old co-workers, I know that it is in God’s hand to see the seed
through to growth.

As Christians, we should seek meaning in everything that we do. We
must remember, however, that God is much, much bigger than our idea of
what “meaning” looks like. It is important that we actively seek to
glorify God in whatever situation we’re in, while also carefully
listening for His direction which might guide us to new situations.
So, yes. Your job is supposed to mean something. Every job, every city
and every person needs the light of Christ. So, make a meaningful
impact wherever you are, whatever your job is.

