http://ymi.today/2016/07/loving-can-hurt-sometimes/

Loving Can Hurt Sometimes

Author: by Contributor

Written by Andrea Chan, Singapore

We all know the unexplainable joy and completeness that comes from
loving someone and being loved in return. But love can hurt sometimes
and cause us deep pain. Although we normally associate these feelings
with romantic love, it is just as applicable in our friendships.

Recently, I realized how painful it is to love wholeheartedly.

Having just completed my studies in Canada and returning home to
Singapore, I spent a lot of time catching up with friends from church,
university, and childhood. Interestingly, all the conversations
started with them telling me that they had been reading my blog posts
and asking about what led me to leave the community back then. As I
shared my story with them, they opened up to me about the struggles
they were facing.

I tend to be drawn to people who are hurting; I like to befriend them,
walk with them, and encourage them as they go through tough times. But
I’ve never seen so many friends struggling at one go—I was overwhelmed
by the hurt they felt.

The struggles they faced included suicidal thoughts, depression, self-
doubt, eating disorders, and self-harm. And they were usually due to
one of these reasons: peer pressure, stress or relationships. It broke
my heart to hear how much they were suffering. I could see the hurt in
their eyes, and yet I could not find the right words to say. As much
as I wished I could take away their suffering, all I could really do
was to listen to their stories, offer to pray for them, hug them, or
simply be a listening ear.

I felt helpless. There were times that I wanted to give up loving and
caring, because I felt tired of trying to care for them and inadequate
in trying to help them. I became wary of how deeply I allowed myself
to love someone, because I knew how painful it was to love with every
fiber of my being.

But God reminded me through His word of the goodness and beauty of
love. Regardless of how we feel, we should still love fearlessly and
faithfully. Because love “always protects, always trusts, always
hopes, always perseveres.” (1 Corinthians 13:7).

Of late, I’ve been prompted to break down my image of having
everything under control, and to be more open about my struggles with
my friends—to remind them that they are not alone.

In my own small ways, I try to do what I can to brighten up someone
else’s day, be it a friend or a stranger. I’m also trying to make time
to catch up with my friends over meals and be a support and
encouragement to people around me as much as I can. I have started to
reach out to a young girl from my church and I try to talk to
individuals who seem lonely. Once, I even hugged a stranger after
overhearing her phone conversation about her bad day.

Through my own flawed version of love, I’m given a glimpse of God’s
love. Through my own flawed version of love, I’m given a glimpse of
God’s love. It pains God greatly to see us suffer and feel hopeless,
just as it hurts us when we see a loved one suffering—but God’s love
far surpasses ours. His love is unconditional, all-forgiving, and
everlasting. It was love for us that led Him to die on the cross for
our sins to save us from the ultimate pain and suffering: eternal
death and separation from God.

And He has given us this commandment, “Love one another. As I have
loved you, so you must love one another.” (John 13:34). We are to love
the people around us—the lovable and the unlovable. I remember that
the feeling of being loved and knowing that there were people looking
out for me. Love was the driving force that kept me going when I was
struggling. I know that loving is not easy… it is an emotional
investment and a long-term commitment. But a little love goes a long
way. Just like the people who chose to love me, I want to pay it
forward by being that source of love for my friends, and I hope this
article encourages you to do so too.

Let us choose to love as an outflow of Christ’s love for us. May we
love so greatly, so vulnerably, and so fiercely just as how Christ
loves us.

“And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of
these is love.” (1 Corinthians 13:13)

