http://ymi.today/2016/10/broken-and-shaken-but-far-from-forsaken/

Broken and Shaken, but Far from Forsaken

Author: by Contributor

Written By Isaac Benavides, Brazil

I grew up in Chile; life was good then. My father had an important
position in a large company and my mother worked as an army nurse. We
led a carefree existence in a neighborhood away from civilization. The
area we stayed was surrounded by rivers and nature; it was known as
“the pearl of the river”, a befitting name. I never imagined that we
would ever leave that place.

But we did. In October 2007, my family moved to Brazil with the desire
to serve as missionaries in a Hispanic community under the ministry of
a local church. Shortly after we arrived however, things changed
dramatically.

Relational conflicts arose. At first, my parents tried to remain
united to honor the commitments they had made to each other and to the
Hispanic community. But unresolved conflicts that existed in our
family before the move, coupled with the challenges of adapting to
another country, language and culture proved too much to bear. A
couple of months into our stay in Brazil, my parents divorced. This
divided the family; my mother and sister returned to Chile while my
father and I stayed back in Brazil.

Naturally, I started asking a lot of questions. I admit that these
questions still haunt me now: Why did we come here? Why did all this
happen? The divorce and the aborted mission deeply shook my faith. As
result, I left the church, drew away from God, and went down a path of
self-destruction.

My mother returned to Chile and my father had to leave the church and
embark on a new path. He tried to work in various places but nothing
went according to plan. One day, frustrated and embittered by his own
mistakes, he decided to turn to God, seek Him and pray.

He sought the Lord for weeks; I heard his cries daily. I believe his
sincere and heart-wrenching cries were pleasing to God. One morning,
my father felt a strong prompting from the Lord to pick up some bread
and coffee and walk along the city streets. And so he went.

Along the way, he came across homeless people—people who were
abandoned, on drugs, or starving. With his limited Portuguese, he
showed love to five of them through a simple act of sharing coffee and
bread. He continued to do this faithfully daily, till he became a
household name along the streets.

Today, some 2,000 people live on the streets of Curitiba, many of them
addicted to drugs and alcohol. They represent one per cent of the
entire population. There was so much need, and my father needed more
people to help in this effort to reach out to them. He was convicted
that God had called him to work with the invisible people in
society—the homeless, addicts, victims of violence—and the direction
of his life changed forever.

Five years on, he now has 100 volunteers from various Christian
denominations, serving more than 200 homeless people in a well-known
park in the city center. Every weekend, he conducts a church service
and feeds the homeless people. He calls this place “open sky church”.

Today, the ministry has grown significantly and now operates a non-
governmental organization as well as a center to rehabilitate drug
addicts. Prayer has been the backbone of the ministry—not once has my
father written any project plan or paper. And God has miraculously
provided all that he has needed at the right time.

Within our family, we are still going through a process of
restoration, forgiveness, and healing. We have grasped, however, the
truth that we must look beyond our circumstances and bring the light
of Christ to those who do not know of His love. There is always
someone who suffers more than we do, and to whom we can make a
difference. There’s nothing more important than a heart willing to be
guided by God and to serve like Christ.

Some people ask me how to find God’s purpose for our lives, and my
honest answer is: I do not know. But one thing I know for sure: God is
good and He can use us, no matter what our circumstances and ability.
God is good and He can use us, no matter what our circumstances and
ability.

At a personal level, God turned me back to Himself when I got married.
He convicted me of my responsibility as a husband and father to
protect my family physically and spiritually. I now rely on Him for
daily guidance and help.

Truth be told, I still struggle with working with drug addicts and
homeless people. But I look at my father every day, and am amazed by
the long hours he puts in and the risks he takes on a daily basis—all
for the sake of having two or three people willing or able to leave
the streets and drugs behind.

I remember asking him about this one day. “Dad, don’t you get
frustrated that your hard work reaps such little results? People do
not change!” He answered me, “I was not called to change and transform
people, I was called to love them. The rest is the work of God.”
That’s when I realized that only a broken person can see and know what
another broken soul needs. Our mission is to love someone—that makes
all the difference.

