http://ymi.today/2016/12/5-ways-to-love-a-stranger-this-christmas/

5 Ways to Love A Stranger This Christmas

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

Once again, it’s Christmas—the season of merriment, goodwill, and
cheer. For most, it’s a time for family and friends, and a time to
reflect on the year gone by.

For believers, it’s the time we commemorate God’s gift to us—the birth
of our Savior Jesus Christ (Luke 2:11-12). And just like how God
showed love to us by giving us His son, we show our love to family and
friends by giving them gifts.

Growing up in a northern Nigerian community, we have a tradition of
preparing delicious delicacies such as a crunchy deep-fried snack
known as chin-chin, cakes, donuts, meat pies, fried chicken and beef
and other dishes in the lead up to Christmas. To show God’s love, we
would wake up in the wee hours of Christmas morning to cook rice or
some other dish, and deliver the piping hot food to our non-Christian
neighbors and friends. They, in turn, would share food with us during
their religious celebrations.

But how many of us extend this kindness to absolute strangers? And why
not? This Christmas, how about making a conscious effort to show love
to a stranger? Sure, there are countless ways, but here are five
“gifts” that I think could help get us started.

As Christians, we are called to be gracious at all times—what more
during the Christmas season? After all, this is the season we
commemorate Jesus’ birth, God’s ultimate gift of grace to us
(Ephesians 2:8).

So let’s try our best to exercise more grace and patience. To the
person who interrupts our sentences, hold our tongues and respond with
words of kindness. To the one who cuts our queue at the grocery store
or into our lane on the road, let them pass and let our grievances go.
To those who have offended us, whether it’s at work, in public, or at
gatherings—let’s be quick to forgive them.

Some of us may already be involved in donating to charities and the
less privileged on a regular basis. But how about paying a visit to an
orphanage or old folks’ home?

Get involved in your local church’s charity drive. Donate blankets and
warm food to those who have none. Remember, Jesus himself cared for
the physical needs of 5,000 strangers (Mark 6:30-34).

The Bible tells us to pray for each other, and that “the prayer of a
righteous person is powerful and effective” (James 5:16). Maybe you
tried to offer a word of encouragement or a gift that ended up being
rejected despite your best efforts. In such instances, we can still
pray for that person.

Pray for the hearts of those who have not received the good news of
salvation, pray for the man you saw crying on the street on your way
home, pray for your friend’s boyfriend’s uncle that you heard about
but have never met, and pray for your leaders and the peace of your
nation.

While we can show love to strangers by giving physical items such as
gifts and money, we can also show love by serving others. There are
several verses in the Bible that encourage us to serve others (e.g.
Phil 2: 5-7; 2 Cor 4:5; Mark 9:35; Gal 5:13). Jesus himself came to
this world to serve, not to be served (Mark 10:45).

Serving strangers can come in many forms. It can be as simple as
helping an old woman cross the street, stopping at the side of the
road to help someone change his car tire, or offering a ride to
someone on your way home. It could also be helping out in church or
joining a group of friends to hand out food and warm clothing to the
homeless on the street.

Most of us know how precious time is—once it’s gone, we can never get
it back. And with our never-ending list of responsibilities, no one
seems to have time for anyone anymore.  Giving time may therefore be
one of the most precious ways we can show love to a stranger.

It could be taking the time and effort to get to know our neighbors
over the Christmas season, having a meal with a student we have seen
on campus or a colleague from a different team, or inviting an
acquaintance who has no family to spend Christmas with to your home.
You could also be a listening ear to a distraught mother at the
supermarket, or offer a shoulder to the person crying on the subway
platform.

Jesus took the time to visit those despised by the religious
institutions of His time. He fed the hungry, healed the sick, and
mourned with those who mourned. He prayed for His friends, enemies,
and those He knew He would never meet during His brief physical
sojourn on earth.



During the Christmas season, I have found joy in making the first move
to start discussions with strangers—sometimes I use the opportunity to
talk about the real reason for the season. Along with members of my
local church, I’ve also visited homes for the elderly or the
physically disabled to sing them Christmas carols.

To me, Christmas is the best time to emulate Jesus’ footsteps, as we
give thanks for the Savior of the world who humbled himself to visit
those who did not know Him (John 17:25-26), to make strangers His
friends, and to reconcile the lost to God.

