http://ymi.today/2017/06/sharenting-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/

Sharenting: The Good, The Bad And The Ugly

Author: by Amy Ji

You must have seen it: Parents sharing photos, updates, and other
information about their children on social media platforms.

It’s a practice known as “sharenting” (a portmanteau of the word
“share” and “parenting”). The word even made it to the Collins English
Dictionary in 2016.

I’m one of those “sharenting” parents and my journey began on my blog.
You see, it was lonely spending hours alone at home with an infant who
could not yet interact with me, so writing became an outlet for the
emotions I was experiencing. I would pour out my woes about motherhood
and people would comment, give suggestions, or write personal
messages. That encouraged me greatly in the first few weeks of
becoming a parent two years ago.

Then it evolved into a convenient way of documenting my daughter’s
growing up years. I began to post monthly updates of her physical
progress, significant milestones, our outdoor adventures, and so on.
Before long, the readership grew and readers began to request posts
about specific parenting topics. These ranged from what books we read
for bedtime, to how we prepared her meals and what we did on holidays
etc.

But soon, I experienced the downside to “sharenting”. On one occasion,
while we were at the supermarket doing our weekly grocery run, a
stranger came up to us, called my daughter by name, and then proceeded
to try and carry her. Shocked, I quickly and courteously declined her
request. The lady insisted she knew us and revealed that she was a
follower of my blog and an ardent fan of my daughter, who was then
barely a year old.

Despite that rather unsettling incident, I continue the practice of
“sharenting”—now slightly wiser and a whole lot more careful. For one,
I no longer put up my child’s personal information on a public sphere.
I am also selective about whom I allow access to my blog, as far as
possible.

After speaking with a handful of fellow blogging mums, I’ve come up
with a few guidelines for myself which I now also try to reflect in my
posts.



I try to write about events within the same month, week, or day, if
I’m able. The memory of the event might get fuzzy and the sharing
inaccurate if I take too long to record what happened. The experience
ought to be recorded fresh, such that authentic emotions, expressions,
and so on are reflected.



Naked baby photos, embarrassing birthday party surprises, and falls
are fun to record, but these ought to be for personal consumption
alone. Let us remember that like us, our kids will one day grow up and
would want their privacy and integrity intact.



In this day and age, it is so easy to be caught up in the digital
world. You plan to upload one photograph, but you end up scrolling
your newsfeed and tapping on various links. And before you know it, a
whole hour has passed. I know it because it happened to me too.

Let’s take great care to protect our time with our children, because
that time is precious. While capturing moments on camera is important,
your child would rather you go through the experience with them,
rather than just having a pretty snapshot of himself/herself. Be with
them in the moment and you won’t regret it later.



The greatest takeaway for me in my “digital” parenting journey so far
has been having like-minded parents to interact with—fellow Christian
mums whom I liken to allies in this battle to raise a generation of
selfless (rather than entitled) individuals living for the cause of
the Kingdom of Heaven. Young mums who share my struggles and older,
more experienced mums who empathize with me and give me valuable
advice.

I may not profess my Christian beliefs explicitly on social media, but
I’d like to believe every choice and every parenting “theory” I share
is centered on God’s love for me.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



