http://ymi.today/2015/11/the-day-i-decided-to-quit-school/

The Day I Decided to Quit School

Author: by Amy Ji

In my country, 16 is the age when most students have to decide which
educational path to embark on next. It could be going to a
polytechnic, a junior college, or taking up a course in a post-
secondary institution. For me, 16 was the age when I announced I was
going to quit school to be a missionary.

It wasn’t your typical “God is calling me” type of announcement,
however.

Sometime in the middle of my sixteenth year, I had volunteered to be
an usher at a yearly missions conference, as I had wanted to attend it
but could not afford the conference fee. On the last night, James
Hudson Taylor IV—descendant of the well-known pioneer missionary to
China—gave the closing message in fluent Mandarin. I was moved to
tears and when the call to the mission field was made, I raised my
hand.

Sounds grand? Unfortunately, the real and ugly truth was that I had
thought that serving God as a missionary would be my ticket to
freedom. I was struggling in school that year, my results were dismal,
I hated my teachers, and I had very few classmates whom I could call
“true friends”.

Little did I know what God had in store for me.

When my mother asked me if I knew what I was getting myself into, I
confidently replied that teaching and living in a village would be
easy. To my utter amazement, my mum agreed and acted on my words
immediately. She contacted her close friend, a missionary serving in
Southeast Asia, and got me a six-week return ticket. So off I went.

Just 11 hours into the journey, I found myself completely lost. Thrust
into a country that spoke in a language I couldn’t comprehend, with
four chickens scurrying about under my seat and my bag perched
somewhere on the top of the truck, I was terrified. Thrust into a
country that spoke in a language I couldn’t comprehend, with four
chickens scurrying about under my seat and my bag perched somewhere on
the top of the truck, I was terrified.

It was nothing like the life I envisioned it to be. There was barely
any electricity, so everyone went to bed at eight and got up at five.
Living in a children’s hostel also meant that I had to help with the
cooking, cleaning, and farming for 30 children and five adults! Other
chores included leading morning devotion and feeding the chickens.
There were no computers or textbooks, so lessons had to be conducted
using chalk and a chalkboard.

It wasn’t all bad, of course. I grew to love the hostel children who
became my best language teachers. I adored them and used all my
allowance to buy them stationery. There was also the amazing view,
fresh air, and cool evenings to take in every day.

But I got extremely homesick. I did not want to eat salted fish
porridge for breakfast or boat noodles for lunch any longer. Neither
did I want to sleep on mattresses on a creaky wooden floor in
suffocating heat, covered by a mosquito net. And I was getting tired
of trekking 45 minutes over a mountain every morning to the nearest
school—which was in the next village. I wanted to go home.

So when the six weeks passed, I packed up and returned home. I went on
to complete my studies and get my degree as well as a diploma in
teaching. I also went back to the hostel four more times and visited
many other village schools in other parts of Asia.

It’s been a decade since all this happened, and I have not given up my
dream to serve the Lord as a missionary one day. But I know that being
a missionary is not an escape route; neither is it easy. Most people
spend months or even years getting themselves prepared, which could
mean taking up language studies, teaching, or cross-cultural
communication lessons.

That short trip changed my perspective on missions completely. I have
learned (the hard way) to wait upon God’s sovereign timing, rather
than take things into my own hands as I did in my youth.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



