http://ymi.today/2015/11/why-miscommunication-happens-so-often/

Why Miscommunication Happens so Often

Author: by Contributor

Written By Crystal Tang, Singapore

Have you had a friendship or relationship sour because of poor
communication? Perhaps a boss did not tell you something in advance
but eventually blamed you for not completing an assignment on time.
Or, some project group mates did not tell you that they needed
help—until the deadline came. Or maybe you had good friends or loved
ones who were hurt as a result of a misunderstanding over a simple
text message.

As a counsellor working with youth and families, I often have to help
family members deal with miscommunication. Parents would complain that
their children do not talk to them, while the children would say that
their parents should listen more to what they have to say instead of
scolding them constantly. Some of the children had even run away from
home because they felt that their parents did not understand them.

It does seem that while technology has greatly enhanced communication
between individuals, the lack of face-to-face interaction has led to a
greater propensity for communication to break down.

I had my own personal brush with such a breakdown in communication—and
it happened because of a simple WhatsApp message. A virtual
conversation between a good friend and me turned sour when she
misunderstood my tone in a text message of mine. It eventually led to
an argument and an emotional exchange, followed by two months of cold
war. It was a most painful two months for me, as I kept dwelling on
the problem. Thankfully, however, after much prayer, we resolved the
problem, forgave each other, and grew our friendship.

So how can we prevent such breakdowns in communication? The Bible has
a fair bit to say about communication. It not only tells us to
communicate well and effectively, but also reminds us of what we
should be communicating about—the gospel.

And it also points out a vital aspect of communication that many of us
tend to overlook—listening. In my work with youth and families, I’ve
heard many children complain that their parents do not listen to them
when they have something to share. And when they blame their parents
for forgetting something they had told them previously, their parents
get angry. The result: heated arguments.

What if we learn to take a different approach? Instead of blaming
others for not understanding what we are trying to say, let’s ask
ourselves these questions first: Do we listen to others when they
speak? Do we treat others with the respect we wish to be treated with?
Instead of blaming others for not understanding what we are trying to
say, let’s ask ourselves these questions first: Do we listen to others
when they speak? Do we treat others with the respect we wish to be
treated with? When others give us sound advice, do we really listen to
what they’re saying?

But how can we learn to listen? I would like to suggest two virtues:
patience and humility. Often (and especially when we’re upset), we
just want to get our own point across. As a result, we tend to lose
patience with others and not listen to their point of view. Or, we may
let our pride get in the way when someone is saying something about
us, and start to defend ourselves instead of adopting a teachable and
humble attitude.

So the next time we find ourselves in such a situation, we could try
to hold our tongue and listen to the other person first. As an old
proverb says, “If speaking is silver, then listening is gold.”

