http://ymi.today/2017/11/are-you-burnt-out-bored-and-barely-rested/

Are You Burnt Out, Bored, and Barely Rested?

Author: by Wendy Wong

When I began working full-time earlier this year, I struggled with the
long hours and intense work. Having been a student pretty much all my
life, adjusting to the transition of #adulting was—and still
is—painful.

As a TV journalist working 12-hour shifts and weekends, I can go days
without seeing my family; having any semblance of a social life is a
privilege.

I constantly felt burnt out and exhausted from both work and having to
interact with so many people on a daily basis. So all I wanted to do
on my days off was to hide in my room and shun all human contact. I
craved me-time—just me, my ice-cream, and Downton Abbey, that is.

Yet I felt guilty for neglecting those around me. So I would arrange
meet-ups with friends and family, filling the remaining blanks in my
calendar with more outings, gatherings, and dates.

When it came to resting, I tended to veer to extremes: either trying
to squeeze in as many appointments with my family, boyfriend, or
friends as possible; or not doing anything at all and binge watching
Downton Abbey for the entire day.

But whether I spent my day off shut up in my room alone, or out and
about with loved ones, I’d feel just as tired by the end of the day as
I would have been if I had worked that day. It was as if the more
“rest” I had, the more unrested and restless I felt.

I soon discovered that my perpetual state of exhaustion and feeling
that I didn’t have even enough time came because I was “feeding” my
fatigue the wrong way (by spending time on my Facebook or Instagram
feed).

I wasn’t feeding myself with real rest—the kind of rest lavished upon
us from the Shepherd of our souls, who alone gives true peace and
abiding rest (John 14:27).

Over the last couple of months of trying to reconcile work and rest,
I’ve learned two lessons on taking a break from our fast-paced
lifestyles.



Rest is a repeated refrain throughout Scripture, where we see God
singling out getting enough rest as a command. From the very beginning
in Genesis 2:2-3, rest was prioritized, as reflected in how God
created for six days before taking a break—not because He needed it,
but to set the standard for humankind to follow.

In the Ten Commandments, God commanded resting on Sabbath as a
requirement of the Law: “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy”
(Exodus 20:8-11).



But lest we think this refers to mere physical rest, in Matthew
11:28-29, Jesus beckons: “Come to me, all who labor and are heavy
laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from
me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for
your souls.”

Our ultimate rest is found in Christ alone, in whom we can cast our
anxieties and burdens onto because He cares for us (1 Peter 5:7).
Unlike in the Old Testament where the Jewish Sabbath was strictly
ordained and observed, we have Jesus, who is our Sabbath rest, and in
whom we enjoy rest—not just once a week, but always.

We find complete rest in Jesus—anytime, anywhere (Exodus 33:14).



This begs the question: What does it mean to rest in Jesus?

The simple answer is to abide in him.

Abiding in Jesus means being intentional about how we spend our free
time (Ephesians 5:15-17). It means choosing to spend time with Jesus,
and not wasting away our time on worthless and trivial pursuits (Psalm
101:3, 119:37).

Abiding in Jesus means dwelling, soaking, and lingering in His
presence—be it as we turn to Him in prayer, meditate upon His word, or
as we worship Him in song and praise (Psalm 27:4; John 15:1-7;
Philippians 4:8).

For a while I struggled with feeling guilty about wanting, even
needing, to watch the latest episode of Modern Family or Conan’s
latest escapades in Israel. While there’s nothing inherently wrong or
evil about watching our favorite show or surfing our favorite website,
we must be careful that it doesn’t overshadow our time with God.

A good way of knowing whether this has happened is to ask ourselves:
Do I desire to spend my time doing or watching this rather than
spending time with God?

In his book, Reclaiming Love: Radical Relationships in a Complex
World, Teaching Director of Youth for Christ, Sri Lanka, Ajith
Fernando, describes those who swap activity for their identity in this
way:

“they become restless souls, afraid to stop or slow down their frantic
pace and busy activity. They work without taking a break because they
sense that stopping will force them to confront the emptiness of their
hearts. To avoid this, when they do stop to take a break, they enter
an imaginary world offered by TV or some other pastime. These
experiences, though they can be good when experienced in moderation,
are never a substitute for silence in the presence of God.”

If this describes you—as it did for me—it may be time to take a step
back and do the following. Pray for your heart, asking the Lord to
give you the desire to spend time with Him, and delight in Him as you
do. If it helps, find a quiet place where you can spend with Him
without distractions. Open your Bible and dive in. Meditate and
journal about what the Lord speaks to you about.

These days, when I feel burned out, bored, or barely rested, I put
away my laptop and phone, and pray. I put on my favorite worship
playlist. I read His word, sometimes along with quiet time material.
Other times, I read literature that points me to Christ. I ponder, and
talk to and thank God over what I’ve learned.

I’ve found that an afternoon spent this way gives me more deep soul
rest than an entire day skimming superficial entertainment. And
interestingly enough, my desire for saturating myself in social media
has decreased to the point that I actually feel bored when I do.

It may sound hard and almost counter-intuitive to read the Bible
rather than binge watch BuzzFeed, but let’s not give up striving to
enter into His rest. And when we do, we’ll find that Jesus indeed
refreshes and satisfies our souls in a way no one and nothing else can
(Jeremiah 31:25).



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



