http://ymi.today/2017/10/when-god-doesnt-take-away-your-anxiety/

When God Doesn’t Take Away Your Anxiety

Author: by Contributor

Written by Rachel Moreland, USA

A question I’m often asked is, “How did you stop having anxiety?”

I haven’t.

Then comes the inevitable follow up: “You mean, you still feel
anxious?”

Every now and then, yes.

“You mean, God hasn’t healed you from it?”

These questions are not uncommon to me and I imagine they’re not
uncommon to others in the church.

The giant chasm which exists between faith and mental health would
suggest that this will always be a difficult topic to discuss. Many
Christians, including myself, do not understand how these two things,
God and GAD (generalized anxiety disorder), could possibly co-exist.

I’ve had numerous conversations with people who ask me about my faith
and its role in regards to how I cope with anxiety. Where does God fit
in?

They might expect me to give them cookie-cutter” answers like “Because
I’m a Christian, I don’t struggle with my anxiety.” Or “trusting in
God removes all anxiety.”

But as someone who has suffered from anxiety and is still affected by
it at times, I can only tell you that there are no simple answers.

Instead, let me offer you five things to keep in mind if you’re a
Christian struggling with anxiety.



As a Christian, I believe that God can do anything. Nothing is
impossible for him (Luke 1:37). Does this include healing people from
illnesses, including mental illness? Yes.

I know people who have personally experienced God’s healing from
different neurological or psychological disorders.

Yet for me, and perhaps to others, the question remains: is there room
for God amidst an anxiety disorder when He hasn’t taken it away? Where
is God when the breakthrough hasn’t happened yet?

The answer is not so black and white.



I cannot tell you how many times I have heard well-meaning churchgoers
tell me, “You just need to pray about it more; you really need to go
before the Lord.”

Let me tell you about my going before the Lord.

As someone who dealt with panic attacks and anxiety disorder
throughout college, I can say that I wasn’t only just going before the
Lord, but I was face-down-lying-on-the-bathroom-floor going before
Him.

If you have been there before, you will know what I mean. Our body
meets the end of ourselves. All dignity is pushed aside, and we beg
and plead, often on our knees. Or in my case, on my hands and my
knees.

Take this from me, God. I cannot do this anymore. It’s just too much.



The night that I lay face down on the bathroom floor of my apartment,
God did not take away my anxiety disorder. He did not miraculously
heal me from my anxiety in one instant act of extraordinary
intervention. I didn’t automatically stop having panic attacks. I
still had to catch my breath and count to 10 in the middle of a work
meeting to avoid a potential breakdown.

My experience wasn’t one of immediate relief. It wasn’t a miraculous
healing that some encounter in church pews. Instead, managing my
anxiety was a long and drawn-out process.

It was the result of many months of intense counselling sessions and
emotional energy. But in that process, I found relief. And I
experienced some healing.

It all started by going to speak to a complete stranger about my
fears. She taught me tools to help stop the onset of a panic attack. I
slowly learned how to manage overpowering feelings of anxiety.

As I accepted the fact that I struggled with a disorder, I also began
the frightening process of opening up to my family and friends. I took
a step back and observed the bad habits I needed to break, and I even
had to say goodbye to some unhealthy relationships. The process was
anything but easy or formulaic, but it allowed me to slowly regain
that peace of mind that Philippians talks about.

“And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard
your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.” (Philippians 4:7)

So did God heal me? Did I achieve breakthrough?

Not in the way you would think. Not in one heavenly instant.

I have no shame in admitting to you that my prayers didn’t result in
the end of my disorder. Healing takes place in many different ways.
Sometimes, it’s the immediate relief from anxiety during a worship
service, and sometimes it’s ongoing treatment from a doctor.

What I can attest to is that God gave me the peace and determination
to manage those days where anxiety was too close for comfort. And
through that, I found grace, and ultimately, freedom.



It’s important to recognize that God does not promise we will never
experience hardship.

I would still feel a sense of nervousness from time to time, even
after attending a counselling session. I still had the occasional
random panic attack in the supermarket (bless the dear woman who
consoled me in the freezer aisle). We will never live a life free of
adversity.

But God does promise that He will be right there with us when we go
through those difficult times.

How comforting it is to know that I am not alone in those moments of
darkness! I have the companionship of one who has already overcome
anxiety. He’s been there, done that.

In Matthew, it says that Jesus overcame the world. He knew what it was
like to feel overwhelmed. To feel anxious. He knew pain and suffering.
I don’t know about you, but that’s a huge relief to know I am not
isolated in this fight.



I’ll be honest with you: today, I still struggle with anxiety from
time to time. I still have those moments of uncertainty. My faith does
not remove the voice of negative self-talk.

But I do have confidence in one thing: God meets me where I am. He has
been with me every step of the way, from diagnosis to recovery. And
looking back, I can certainly attest that I am not the same person I
was several years ago as I sat in the doctor’s office discussing
different side effects of anti-depressants. I can confidently say that
the worst is behind me.

When I hear that there is no room for God in the whole “mental health”
debate, I want to remind those people of one of the key issues at the
centre of this whole conversation: God loves people in their humanity
and we are to do the same of one another. Despite our perceived
“weakness” and our human tendency to fear and to feel insecure—God
still uses us to inspire, to lead and to love others. He uses anxious
people.

I am the most peaceful I probably have ever been on my journey, but
every now and then, I still feel a little off. But it’s encouraging to
know that I don’t have to be perfect.

I don’t have to feel perfectly. I can just be. And that’s perfectly
okay.

