http://ymi.today/2016/09/the-real-reason-i-worked-hard-in-army/

The Real Reason I Worked Hard in Army

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jireh Tan, Singapore

I usually introduce myself as Jireh, but on weekdays when I’m in camp,
I’m known as Third Sergeant (3SG) Jireh. For close to two years now, I
have been fulfilling my National Service (NS)*.

I had no idea what to expect when I first entered basic military
training in February 2015. Armed only with blessings from my parents
and my close friends, I entered into the foreign world of military
life. Thankfully, the initial confusion and homesickness passed
quickly and the new environment swiftly became much less terrifying.
After two months of basic training, I did well enough to be posted to
the Specialist Cadet School# for further training.

The next six months flew by, and by October 2015, I had completed my
specialist training. Although I did not graduate among the top 10
percent of my cohort, I knew I was somewhere close because my
instructor had told me that I was destined for a relatively high
appointment in my next posting. Although I didn’t understand what I
had done to deserve such praise, I was secretly pleased.

Now assigned to an operational unit, the initial adjustment was
naturally difficult, but with good and helpful batch mates, my peers
and I settled down quickly. We joined the rest of the company in
outfield exercises and helped out in training. Our superiors soon
began evaluating our suitability for greater responsibilities.

Looking back, I’m ashamed to admit that my main reason I working hard
at the time was to gain the approval of both my peers and seniors. I
was drawn to the prestige that came with rank and had little
understanding of what the actual responsibilities entailed.

But when the announcements were made, I found out I was not among
those who had been promoted. I immediately came up with justifications
for my failure to make the cut: maybe I had underperformed during
evaluations, or perhaps an extended period of medical leave—the result
of an unfortunate bout of conjunctivitis—had given my leaders the
impression that I was shirking responsibilities.

I turned to God for answers. It was a gradual process, accompanied
with biting feelings of disappointment from time to time. But I slowly
became aware that I had allowed myself to fall into an unending cycle
of striving and dissatisfaction, where I would always pray for the
next blessing without treasuring the ones that had previously been
given. I coveted that promotion just like how I had coveted good
results in school—as another achievement to be collected. In the
months following that, God taught me about contentment and
faithfulness in the things that had been entrusted to me.

The truth is: there would never be an end to the achievements that we
can collect and the people that we desire to please. Contentment is
not found in the next achievement; it is found in delighting in what
we have already been blessed with. Contentment is not found in the
next achievement; it is found in delighting in what we have already
been blessed with.

The parable of the bags of gold in Matthew 25 teaches us that it is
not the amount entrusted to us that matters—what matters is how we
steward it. Faithfulness in little prepares us for the other things
that God has in store for us, while contentment starves off our hunger
for fame and recognition. We learn to embrace what we have been
blessed with, and to let God do the leading.

Slowly but surely, I’m seeing that He knows better than I do. In my
current position, I have more opportunities to invest in my
relationships and ministry, spend more time with the people I love,
and explore my passions. While I may still possess remnants of a
mentality of excessive striving, I’m learning to live less for
personal prestige and to choose instead to live for the applause of
nail-scarred hands. That is infinitely more rewarding than any
promotion or accolade I can receive, in or out of the army.



* National Service (NS) is compulsory duty in the uniformed services
for all Singaporean males upon finishing their tertiary education (but
before any higher education). This usually includes two years of full-
time service.

# Specialist Cadet School (SCS) trains promising military recruits
into specialists, which are equivalent to the non-commissioned
officers (sergeants) of other militaries.

