http://ymi.today/2016/03/is-marriage-the-pinnacle-of-love/

Is Marriage the Pinnacle of Love?

Author: by Contributor

Something Greater Than Marriage: A Response to the Supreme Court’s
Same-Sex Marriage Decision

Written by Christopher Yuan and Rosaria Butterfield

The Supreme Court of the United States of America has made gay
marriage legal in all 50 states and much of our country celebrates.
The world with its rainbow flags waving proudly and plentifully was
our world. We locked arms with our LGBT loved ones and friends and
believed that they were truly and honestly our family of choice.

This is the world that we, Christopher and Rosaria, helped build—a
world pursuing dignity and equality. The people you see celebrating
the recent SCOTUS decision to redefine marriage (and with marriage,
personhood) would have been us, not very long ago.

In 1999, when Jesus Christ revealed His saving grace and love to each
of us, we learned that our unbelief, and the idolatrous sexual lusts
that flowed from it, were no longer matters of personal choice. We
accepted that following Jesus meant giving up everything. We
understood that repentance meant fleeing from anything that embodied
the temptations that we knew best and loved most. But even prior to
our conversion to Christ, God provided the love and care of
Christians, people who became for us a new family, new brothers and
sisters and mothers and fathers in Christ—who knew and loved us before
we were safe to love. Christians loved, accepted, included, and
surrounded us with biblical truth while we were still sinners, thus
modeling the Lord Himself. Therefore, when the Holy Spirit changed our
hearts, we came to know this: the gospel is costly and worth it.

The days after the Supreme Court’s ruling are like the days before it:
God is seated on His throne in power and majesty—and one day, every
knee will bow and every tongue will confess Him.

We affirm that God has ordained marriage to be the union of a husband
and a wife which Jesus himself restated in Mark 10:6-8 and Matthew
19:4-5. But even though some in our culture believe as Justice Kennedy
wrote that marriage “embodies the highest ideals of love,” we
disagree. Earthly marriage does not have a monopoly on love. God is
love (1 John 4:7-19). The pinnacle of love is God’s love for us in
Christ. Nothing is greater than that.

Mystery and Reflection

In actuality, marriage is a mystery and a reflection of a greater
reality. Truly, the highest ideal of love is Christ’s love for his
bride, the church. In Ephesians 5 and Revelation 21, marriage is
analogous to Christ’s redemption: the marriage consummation between
the bride (redeemed sinners) and the Groom (Christ) shows that all
redeemed people are married to Christ. Only in Christ can anyone
experience the full definition of love and acceptance. As important as
earthly marriage and family are, they are both fleetingly temporary,
while Christ and the family of God (the church) are wondrously
eternal.

We have failed to show the LGBT community another option to
marriage—which is singleness—lived out in the fruitful and full
context of God’s community, the family of God. This does not mean as
Justice Kennedy wrote that singles are “condemned to live in
loneliness,” but that singles can have intimate and fulfilling
relationships full of love. This is not a consolation prize. It can be
just as rewarding and fulfilling as marriage.

Defining marriage as being between a husband and a wife appears unfair
to the LGBT community, in part because a life of singleness is viewed
to be crushingly lonely. Have we in the church inadvertently played
into that lie with our idolatry of marriage while being pejorative and
silent toward singleness? If singleness is unfair, then it is no
wonder that marriage has become a right. Just as the LGBT community
appealed to the rest of the world for dignity and respect, it is time
for the church to fight for the dignity and respect of single women
and single men.

Defining Moment

Some are now comparing the Supreme Court’s decision on gay marriage
with the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision on abortion. There is an important
lesson for us to learn from the pro-life movement. Today, there are
more pro-life millennials than others from previous generations who
champion pro-life. When pro-life people, made up of more than just
evangelical Christians, began fighting less and caring more for unborn
babies and for women with unplanned pregnancies just as they were, a
shift in focus brought about an important change. The question stands:
will we begin caring for the LGBT community just as they are?

This is a defining moment in history. We have a faithful opportunity
to shine for the gospel. Will we point people to marriage as the
“highest ideal of love”? Or will we point people—whether married or
single—to a life of costly discipleship pursuing the embodiment of
love, Jesus Christ himself? The decision is ours to make.



Editor’s Note: This article was first written on 28 June 2015. It has
been published on The Gospel Coalition, Ethics & Religious Liberty
Commission and The Christian Post. Used with permission from
Christopher Yuan.

About Christopher Yuan

Dr. Christopher Yuan teaches the Bible at Moody Bible Institute and
his speaking ministry on faith and sexuality has reached five
continents. He speaks in conferences (such as The Gospel Coalition,
Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, InterVarsity’s Urbana and the
Moody Pastors’ Conferences and Men’s Conference), on college campuses
and in churches (such as Saddleback Church and Willow Creek Community
Church). He is featured in the award-winning documentary HOPE
Positive: Surviving the Sentence of AIDS, and has co-authored with his
mother their memoir, Out of a Far Country: A Gay Son’s Journey to God,
A Broken Mother’s Search for Hope (image on the right). Christopher
graduated from Moody Bible Institute in 2005, Wheaton College Graduate
School in 2007 with a Master of Arts in Biblical Exegesis and received
his doctorate of ministry in 2014 from Bethel Seminary.



About Rosaria Butterfield

Rosaria Butterfield was once a tenured professor of English who
identified as a lesbian and worked to advance the cause of LGBT
equality. After her conversion to Christ in 1999, she came to see the
sinfulness of having any identity apart from Him. Rosaria is married
to Kent Butterfield, pastor of the First Reformed Presbyterian Church
of Durham, and is a home-school mother, pastor’s wife, author, and
speaker. She is helping Christians to better understand their LGBT
neighbors and loved ones so that we can lovingly look past labels of
sexual identity and share the gospel effectively. In 2012 she
published her conversion memoir, The Secret Thoughts of an Unlikely
Convert: An English Professor’s Journey to Christian Faith. Her second
book, Openness Unhindered: Further Thoughts of an Unlikely Convert on
Sexual Identity and Union with Christ became available in July of
2015. She writes about sexuality, identity, Christian community, and
seeks to encourage all in faithful Christian living and service.



