http://ymi.today/2014/12/make-decisions-please-god-part-two/

How to Make Decisions That Please God [Part Two]

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jeremy Larson, USA

[Read Part One here]

“Many, through wishing to be great, have failed to be good.” —Charles
Spurgeon

Ambition, goal setting, and practical use of our time are good things,
but we shouldn’t develop tunnel vision and lose sight of others in the
process.

There’s a well-known story of a seminary that secretly conducted a
good Samaritan test. The  students were instructed to prepare a sermon
on the good Samaritan parable and were given a scheduled time to
preach their prepared sermons. When they showed up to give the sermon,
the students were told it was to be at the adjacent building and given
various levels of urgency. Some were urged that they were already
running late, some that they were late but it was alright, and others
that they still had a few minutes. A man was staged to be slumped over
(whether he was drunk, beaten, or ill was unknown) along the
connecting pathway.

So what do you suppose the results were? Not very flattering. Only 40
percent offered the man help, the majority of which comprised those
who were not in a hurry. Talk about irony. I can imagine their
embarrassment after being informed of the test results. These were
seminary students, tested while preparing a sermon on the very thing.
But in all honesty, none of us can judge them, as we are all guilty of
such things. Often, we are caught up with completing our own
assignment, we lose sight of others in the process. Often, we are
caught up with completing our own assignment, we lose sight of others
in the process.

It is interesting to note too that Christian bookshelves are loaded
with instructions on achievement, greatness and lofty aspirations.
Reading between the lines, the message is starting to sound like
“build the kingdom of God by building your own life first.” With books
encouraging us to seek greatness and our God-given dreams, we have a
tendency to take that and run with it.

Pursuing big dreams for God’s kingdom is important, and the best use
of one’s life. However to do this solely is like adding, whereas
helping others to achieve their dreams is multiplying. In Amish
society, when one person needs a new barn, the whole community comes
to help. They wind up building it in a matter of days. Think of how
long it would take to do it yourself! In this way, everyone achieves
more, both individually and as a whole.

Basically, the point can be summed up by what Einstein has said: “Try
not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of
value.”

Ask yourself, Will doing this thing bring you closer to God, or
further away? Likewise will it bring others closer to or further from
God?

Jesus said by loving God with all our hearts, souls and minds, and by
loving our neighbors as ourselves, we automatically fulfill the rest
of Scripture. How simple, yet we end up complicating the matter way
too much. It often leads us to major on the minors, and minor on the
majors in life.

I think part of the reason we neglect these commands to love is we
fail to see what a life like that actually looks like. Basically, if
we can’t or don’t envision it, we can’t emulate it. So what does it
look like?

A while ago the answer randomly popped into my mind, “Seek the Lord
with all your heart, and help your neighbors with all your strength.”
These two things are the bottom line, the original way to love God and
others. We all know we were created to have a relationship with God.
So while everything else becomes obsolete in heaven, our relationship
with Him won’t. Likewise our earthly purpose is the great commission.
Everything besides these two things are only details, and will either
enhance or hinder our primary calling to love.

It’s important to remember, that God comes first, not only before us,
but other people as well. Sometimes we get it backwards, and basically
love others before God. It’s important to remember, that God comes
first, not only before us, but other people as well. Sometimes we get
it backwards, and basically love others before God. That’s essentially
what happens when we get so caught up in church activities or “serving
God” that we forget that He has it all under control. Christian
apologist Ravi Zacharias once said, “Many Christians have so busied
themselves with programs and activities that they no longer know how
to be silent and meditate on God’s word or recognize the mysteries
that are in the Person of Christ.”

I used to wonder why God commanded us to love Him. It sounds odd,
doesn’t it? Like something out of a mafia movie “I’m gonna make you an
offer you can’t refuse.” One day when I was asking the Lord about
this, it dawned on me that this was His way of expressing His
priorities and stating just how important it is. In other words, we
can do everything else, but it’s all in vain if we don’t get the first
priority right.

God desire to draw us higher and closer to Himself. Not only is this
how we bring God the greatest pleasure and satisfaction with our life,
but it is also how we grow in wisdom, grace, love, peace, joy, and
godliness as well as enjoy lasting, fruitful success in life. When we
put the Lord first, everything else will fall into place.



