http://ymi.today/2017/07/4-ways-to-flee-sexual-temptation/

4 Ways to Flee Sexual Temptation

Author: by Contributor

Written By James Bunyan

James Bunyan is a bit of a fidget, to be honest. His inability to sit
still tends to spill over into all sorts of areas of his life; he
loves travelling, good writing, all sports (except frisbee), the sense
of purpose that the gospel gives him, exotic teas and the satisfaction
of peeling off a sticker all in one go. He lives in Teddington
(London), where he is training to be a vicar in the Church of England.
For James and his wife Lois, lockdown in London was improved by the
arrival of their daughter, Galilee, who just learned to clap.



I read about a recent pastors’ conference in the United States where,
during the Q&A session, the inevitable question came to the old
preacher sitting on a stool in the middle of the stage: “What is the
one thing you want younger pastors to know?” The preacher put his head
in his hands for several minutes to think. He then lifted his head and
simply said, “Never touch another man’s wife.”

Now that shouldn’t surprise us. Adultery wrecks lives. And it’s
actually a familiar scene. In fact, Proverbs opens with an old father
sitting with a son, sharing some hard-earned wisdom. And, similarly,
out of everything he could share, he warns his son to avoid adultery.
It’s honest, it’s caring, it’s brilliantly written, and it gives us a
few helpful pointers for avoiding sexual immorality* ourselves.



“At the window of my house I looked down through the lattice. I saw
among the simple, I noticed among the young men, a youth who had no
sense. He was going down the street near her corner, walking along in
the direction of her house at twilight, as the day was fading, as the
dark of night set in.” Proverbs 7:6-9

This poor sap’s first mistake is obvious. He knows the adulteress is
there and he is walking along “the street near her corner . . . in the
direction of her house.” In other words, he is bound to bump into her
and a story that ends with his destruction wouldn’t have begun if he
had just walked another way.

Unlike the “youth with no sense”, make sure you don’t go near
situations that you know are going to tempt you to do something wrong.
Don’t follow the first slightly-less-innocent link you see late at
night. Don’t watch movies with your girlfriend on a laptop in bed.
Don’t go for a drink with your married colleague. It’s far easier to
simply avoid certain situations than it is to get out of them later.

I heard of one new university student who promised a friend back home
that he would phone him if ever he was tempted to do something he
would regret. Well, a few weeks into term, he realised that one of the
girls in his halls was pretty keen on him and kept trying to get alone
with him. One night, she decided to do something drastic: she walked
into his room, late at night, in just a towel—and dropped the towel.

The student, at first, wasn’t precisely sure of what he should do. So
he got up, trying hard not to look at the naked girl in his room,
walked across the room and picked up his phone and rung his friend.
His friend told him not to panic but if he just went for a 30-minute
walk, he would find her gone when he returned.

So that’s what he did. And she was gone when he returned.

I love that simplicity. I’m sure that’s not how she expected the
evening to go and, funnily enough, she never brought it up again.



“Then out came a woman to meet him, dressed like a prostitute and with
crafty intent. (She is unruly and defiant, her feet never stay at
home; now in the street, now in the squares, at every corner she
lurks.) She took hold of him and kissed him and with a brazen face she
said: ‘Today I have fulfilled my vows, and I have food from my
fellowship offering at home. So I came out to meet you; I looked for
you and have found you! I have covered my bed with coloured linens
from Egypt. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes and cinnamon.
Come, let’s drink deeply of our love until morning; let’s enjoy
ourselves with love! My husband is not at home; he has gone on a long
journey. He took his purse filled with money and will not be home
until full moon.’ ” Proverbs 7:10-20

The adulteress makes such an effort to make him feel special! She
kisses him in the street, she says she’s been looking for him, she has
decorated her bed, she promises him a long night of love and,
bizarrely, she claims she’s even done her religious duties and
sacrifices.

But she’s a liar. She’s “crafty”. No matter how special she promises
to make him feel, it won’t be as good as she promises and he is not
the only one for her. Don’t forget, she probably made her husband, who
has gone away on business, feel just as special one day, possibly even
a few hours previously. As her feet “never stay at home”, who knows
who else she has made to feel special?

And what’s true of this adulteress is true of other sexual
temptations. The lie of pornography, for instance, is that you can
enjoy a special few hours with a beautiful person you probably
wouldn’t have been able to pull normally. But the reality is that the
same video arousing you has aroused thousands of different people
alongside you. And what the video doesn’t show you is the sexual abuse
involved in the porn industry. It doesn’t show you the crowd of
production staff watching every moment. It doesn’t show you the girls
vomiting off camera. It doesn’t show you the medication necessary for
all those takes. It’s a lie.

And when put like that, your special night does become a very grubby
few minutes.



“With persuasive words she led him astray; she seduced him with her
smooth talk. All at once he followed her like an ox going to the
slaughter, like a deer stepping into a noose till an arrow pierces his
liver, like a bird darting into a snare, little knowing it will cost
him his life.” Proverbs 7:21-23

Well, the simple bloke is sold; he follows her inside, happily
swapping lasting happiness for an evening of passion. But, like all
sin, it’s short-sighted and short-lived. This will lead to his
destruction.

The reality is that sexual immorality promises life but delivers
death. It leads to broken relationships, broken trusts, broken lives.
Sleeping with someone else’s wife might be electric for a time but it
will leave both of you broken, not to mention what it does to your
standing before God. And in practice, I don’t think I’ve met anyone
who doesn’t regret cheating once they’ve done it.

So before you do what you’re tempted to do, just take a second to
think ahead. Is this going to leave you feeling sick in the morning?
Will this mean you won’t be able to look your future spouse in the eye
one day? Do you want to be that kind of person? As my old vicar used
to say, “the problem with living for the moment is that you very often
screw up the next one”.



“Now then, my sons, listen to me; pay attention to what I say. Do not
let your heart turn to her ways or stray into her paths. Many are the
victims she has brought down; her slain are a mighty throng. Her house
is a highway to the grave, leading down to the chambers of death.”
Proverbs 7:24-27

And so the father turns back to his son, urging him to pay attention
to the warning. After all, the old man in his wisdom knows that,
although all this may seem pretty obvious, people still fall for it.
Sexual immorality is far too common, even among Christians—“many are
the victims she has brought down.” The son would do well not to be so
complacent as to assume he’ll be stronger than everyone else.

And this doesn’t just go away in marriage. Some might assume that once
you’re hitched, sexual immorality is a thing of the past. But, after
being married for two years now, I am convinced that all your problems
don’t simply melt away! Discipline still matters and, not only could
it be far too easy to take your spouse for granted, but it becomes
more important than ever to not take a second look at someone and to
stay far away from certain websites and situations. It’s not just
myself that I’d be hurting now.

The reality is that the stakes could not be higher. The God of the
Bible promises life in all its fullness to those who love Him. He
promises that His people will one day sit by His side, having
inherited all that belongs to His Son. He promises that they will see
Jesus face to face in a place where perfect relationships are totally
normal. And He gives us marriage in this life as a temporary,
imperfect picture of His great love for His people. Loving commitment
in marriage is good because it echoes God’s loving commitment to
people that will stretch into eternity.

You don’t want to endanger that.



*I know that adultery and all other kinds of sexual immorality aren’t
exactly the same. But the Bible, or Jesus himself, would often lump
adultery together with all other kinds of “sexual immorality” as
simply wrong. Sex is for binding husband and wife together as one and
the Bible doesn’t recognise any other kind of sexual activity as good.
So, Proverbs isn’t just for avoiding adultery; it’s for fleeing any
kind of sexual immorality.

