http://ymi.today/2017/04/3-ways-discomfort-discomforted-me/

3 Ways Discomfort Discomforted Me

Author: by Joanna Hor

Not again. I was at my wit’s end. A good two and a half weeks had
passed since I had finished my second course of antibiotics, but as I
gazed at the ceiling that night—awake, alert, and anxious—it felt as
though I was back to square one.

For weeks, I had been experiencing a mild case of urinary tract
infection (UTI). It was not the first time I had it; but unlike the
first time, when a round of antibiotics easily cured it, the symptoms
were relentless this time.

In most cases, UTI manifests as a frequent or intense urge to urinate.
On some nights, I would go to the toilet as many as seven times before
going to bed. On other nights, anxiety about having to visit the
toilet in the middle of the night would plague me the moment I lay on
the bed. I would end up tossing and turning for a couple of hours—and
on some occasions, the entire night.

That night, I had just made five trips to the toilet within two hours.
As I flopped onto my bed for the fifth time, I could feel my heart
racing and a sense of dread setting in. I couldn’t help thinking about
what else I should have done to ensure a faster recovery.

Take antibiotics, probiotics, and cranberry juice? Check. Drink a lot
of water? Check. Pay a visit to the doctor? Check. Twice. Seek divine
intervention? Big check. I even “formalized” my plea to God on three
separate occasions by recording my prayers in my journal when the
symptoms seemed to much for me to bear.

But none of these things seemed to work.

“Maybe this is the thorn in your flesh God has given you,” my brother
finally said on one occasion after hearing me lament for the umpteenth
time and trying unsuccessfully to cheer me.

That’s when it hit me. What if God had no intention to remove this
“thorn in the flesh” from my life for the time being? What if the
whole reason why I was going through this was that God was trying to
teach me that His grace was sufficient for me—but I had just been too
preoccupied to see it?

When I finally turned to scripture to read about Paul’s struggle and
response to his thorn in the flesh (2 Corinthians 12:7-10), I felt
rebuked by my own less-than-ideal response. That’s when I discovered
three things about myself.



As much as I know my life is in God’s hands, I almost always resort to
human means to address my problems. If I’m falling sick, I make sure I
get enough rest and eat the right food. If I don’t achieve positive
results at work, I try to put in more effort. If people don’t respond
to me, I look at what I should or shouldn’t have said, and try to make
up for it. Everything in life can be “fixed” with the right solution,
and so can my health.

While there is nothing inherently wrong with these actions, I realize
that it’s only when I exhaust all human means that I turn to God,
delve into scriptures, and pray actively and fervently for relief.
This is exactly what happened in my recent case of UTI.



In the grand scheme of things, I knew that the physical discomfort I
was experiencing wasn’t that bad. For one, it would hardly constitute
the kind of suffering the Bible talks about (Romans 5:3-5). Also,
aside from having to make frequent toilet trips, I didn’t feel any
physical pain and could function perfectly well. I could eat, work,
sleep, and play. As long as my mind was distracted by something else,
I wouldn’t even feel the symptoms.

But I certainly made a big deal out of it. Whenever the symptoms
became more pronounced— especially in the evening when I was resting
at home—I would throw a pity party for myself and invite my family
members to be a part of it. I also made sure those around me—my
colleagues, church friends, and close friends—knew I was “suffering”
and would never fail to request for their prayer.

I’m ashamed to say I don’t always remember to pray for friends the
same way, especially if they share about their “minor” problems like
cough and cold. In fact, I even secretly frown on those who keep
harping on the same issue, such as when my mother kept asking my
brother and I to pray that God would remove the itchy sensation around
her neck. It was only when I had to go through a prolonged period of
physical discomfort myself that I realized how “non-issues” like these
could so easily affect and discourage me.

That realization made me more sympathetic to others going through
similar discomfort. I decided to consciously pray for others every
night as I prayed for my own relief. And that’s when God really put my
problems in perspective. Compared to the aunty at church who was
having a relapse of lymphoma and a friend who had just suffered a
serious viral attack that almost took her life, what did I have to
complain about?



Though I know that this world is not my final destination, I tend to
live my life as though I’m going to be here for eternity. It’s only in
moments of helplessness that I’m reminded of the truth that I should
not be holding on to anything in this life.

Discomforts and setbacks of any magnitude or nature serve as reminders
that we live in a transient—and broken—world. Our physical bodies are
not built to last; over time, they will naturally wear down and
malfunction. How comforting, then, are the words of 2 Corinthians
4:17-18, which tell us that the suffering we go through in life now is
preparing us for eternity: “For our light and momentary troubles are
achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. So we
fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen, since what is
seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal.”

Though we see trouble and suffering on every front, we know that these
are but signposts that there is something so much better ahead of us;
difficulties and suffering in life will come to an end. And while
there’s nothing we can do to escape problems in life, we can certainly
change how we choose to respond to them. American pastor Charles
Stanley once said that nothing attracts the unbeliever like a saint
suffering successfully. Based on how I had been responding, I’m pretty
sure I looked more like a saint suffering sorrowfully. Still, I thank
God for using this episode to correct the way I have been viewing and
responding to “suffering”.

As I write this article now, I’m thankful that God has stopped my UTI
from flaring up in the past week. I’m not sure it will recur, but this
experience has given me the determination to do these three things the
next time I’m faced with any form of “discomfort”:



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



