http://ymi.today/2017/05/my-identity-crisis-all-i-wanted-was-to-fit-
in/

My Identity Crisis: All I Wanted Was to Fit In

Author: by Michele Ong

I spent a large part of my adolescence searching for my identity as if
it were a lost item to be found.

I suppose it was because a large part of my childhood and early
teenage years was spent moving between various states in Malaysia
before settling in Auckland, New Zealand. My dad’s former job required
him to move whenever a new position arose, and we would move with him.

By the time I was 15, I had been to three different kindergartens,
three primary schools, and two high schools. To be fair, some of my
friends zipped through even more schools, so I can’t really complain.
But the constant state of motion meant that I was always searching for
a new identity just so I could fit into my new environment. I didn’t
want to be seen as an outsider, so I found myself always trying to
meet the status quo.

For example, when a friend told me that someone had labeled me as an
outdated individual due to my taste in music, I made up my mind to
learn all there was to each new pop group. I would pester my dad to
buy me the latest albums and music magazines, and would collect
posters of each band.

Trying to fit in also extended to the extracurricular activities I
took part in. When I was in primary school in Malaysia, I signed up
for Taekwondo as it was the coolest club, and worked my way to a brown
belt. But when I moved to junior high school, Taekwondo lost its
appeal and was replaced by Scouts.

The first few months of Scouting went relatively well, despite having
to put up with the heat in Malaysia and the relentless mosquitoes that
swarmed around us in the humid evenings when we were camping. For me,
it was a chance to do something cool, with hopes that I’d be accepted
into the “in” crowd. I mean, all the camping, tramping, and hiking
would surely result in good camaraderie between teammates right?

But an incident that happened during one camping trip cemented the
fact that I was never going to be part of the popular crowd. I was
putting away my teammates’ mess tins, which we had all washed and
dried, onto a makeshift tripod—which was made out of bamboo sticks and
held together by the different knots a Scout is supposed to learn and
know—when it tipped over. Immediately, a chorus of groans went up,
with voices demanding to know how I could have been so careless. It
was all arms and elbows as everyone pitched in to rinse the dishes
again and steady the tripod.

As the evening wore on, another girl managed to upend the tripod after
supper. She was pretty, older than most of us, and hung out with the
right crowd. Instead of angry voices demanding to know why she was so
careless, there was only laughter. All she got was a joking
remonstration, “Oh, you’re so careless!” I went home sad and
miserable, gave up Scouting, and shied away from all outdoor
activities thereafter.

My early secondary school life in Malaysia was a drag—my academic
results were less than stellar, and at one point, I was failing just
about every subject there was under the sun. But society saw Science
stream students as the smarter bunch, so I had to continue studying
subjects I was weak in because I didn’t want to be seen as anything
less.

When my parents announced we were moving to New Zealand, I breathed a
sigh of relief. Don’t get me wrong: I was reluctant to leave my
friends behind. But I realized starting school in a new country would
give me a fresh start—and a level of anonymity.

To the rest of my Kiwi classmates, I was just one of the many Asian
students at high school. Granted, there were the usual stereotypes of
Asians excelling in math and science, but I was also given the
opportunity to study the subjects I was interested in. I also felt
that it hardly mattered if my clothes were of the correct label or
not, because most international students bought clothes from their
home country anyway.

Furthermore, my teachers were far more interested in nurturing my
strengths—such as English and writing—so the pressure to excel in
certain subjects fell away. As a result, I enjoyed school
tremendously, and went on to do the same subjects I loved at
university.

But if you think that solved my identity crisis, you’re wrong. I
disliked the fact that I was poor in math and that accounting wasn’t
really my cup of tea. And I wondered why God would have me excel in
English and not biology. On top of that, my parents’ friends would
question my decision to pursue an English major in university. “But
why?” was the most common question. “You can speak English, can’t
you?”

So, by the time I was ready to graduate from university, I was still
floating in the big world with no identity to anchor myself on.

It wasn’t until I attended a workshop at my church, that I learned
about where my real identity comes from—and it certainly isn’t about
being like other people.

At the workshop, we were given a list of affirmations of who we are in
Christ, followed with Scriptures to back them up. The list had items
such as, “I am a child of God” (John 1:12), “I am a friend of Jesus”
(John 15:15)—and one that hit me like a ton of bricks: “I have been
accepted by Christ” (Romans 15:7). You see, for years I had tried to
gain the acceptance of others, but here was a verse that told me that
Jesus accepted me—even when I was the uncool individual who listened
to bad music before I joined Taekwondo and Scouts. That verse told me
God saw me for who I was (with all my flaws) and yet still said: I
accept her for who she is.

I also learned how I’m God’s workmanship, created in Christ to do good
works (Ephesians 2:10), and that I am greatly loved by God (Romans
1:7, Ephesians 2:4, Colossians 3:12, 1 Thessalonians 1:4).

Intrigued, I read Rick Warren’s The Purpose Driven Life, which said:
“God never does anything accidentally, and He never makes mistakes. He
has a reason for everything He creates. Every plant and every animal
was planned by God, and every person was designed with a purpose in
mind.”

You see, not only did I have to contend with an identity crisis, but
there were also times when I wondered if God had made a mistake when
He made me. After all, I was hardly Miss Influential and some of my
schoolmates treated me like as if I were an insect. As my insecurities
melted away, however, I started to see how silly I had been in looking
to my peers for an affirmation of my identity. I realized that God is
not bothered with the bands that I follow, the clothes that I wear, or
what outdoor interests I pursue. Discovering (and making peace) with
my identity also gave me a sense of purpose, which I believe is an
important factor when it comes to fighting off insecurities,
comparisons, and jealousies. Discovering (and making peace) with my
identity also gave me a sense of purpose, which I believe is an
important factor when it comes to fighting off insecurities,
comparisons, and jealousies.

When I realized that one of my life’s purposes was to write for God, I
started to view it as something sacred because it’s a gift from God,
instead of a thing to be wished away. Don’t get me wrong, I have
always enjoyed writing, but when I was growing up, adults around me
made me feel it wasn’t a valuable skill set. What is the use of being
able to write if your math and science is falling behind? Have you
ever heard of a poor accountant? Those comments certainly had a way of
making me feel inferior. However, when I learned to accept who I was,
I stopped trying to be someone else, and begin to develop my skills
and talents instead.

My newfound identity in Christ has given me the freedom to pursue my
hobbies like writing and swimming wholeheartedly. It has also made me
braver in pursuing new adventures. For example, never in a million
years would I have dreamed of training to be a surf lifeguard, but
I’ll be spending a huge amount of time this year training in the pool
and open water to qualify as one.

You may be struggling with finding your own identity, and at times, it
can seem like you’re drowning in an ocean of voices telling you to be
this or that. But let me encourage you: Take the time to read about
what God says about you, and you’ll find out that your identity can be
found in Him. Because in God, we have an identity so strong and solid
that it will never be eroded by popular culture or the latest trend.



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



