http://ymi.today/2015/10/3-lessons-on-loving-difficult-people/

3 Lessons on Loving Difficult People

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jeremy Larson, USA

Loving some people can be hard, especially when they’re unlovable. But
that doesn’t mean we can just shrug our shoulders and shrug off our
responsibility. It’s been said that we are the only Jesus people see.
So we need to be a light to the world—and that only happens by love.

These are three lessons I’ve learned on how to love people.

1. We cannot love others until we love God.

We cannot give what we do not have. Instead of trying to love others
with our own strength, we first need to love Christ—and know His love
for us. Love for others can then flow genuinely and naturally. Our
relationship with God has to take the top priority in our lives.

2. We need to love others just as Jesus did.

Jesus conquered the world through love, and we too are to reach out to
others with love. Love never fails (1 Corinthians 13:8). Love doesn’t
mean being all nice, polite, and politically correct. It is to respect
and value people, and to be truly concerned about them, their lives,
and their eternal destination. This kind of love is founded on truth
and manifests in practical ways.

French military and political leader Napoleon Bonaparte observed the
key difference between Jesus’ empire and that of other conquerors:

“Alexander, Caesar, Charlemagne, and I have founded great empires; but
on what did these creations of our genius depend? Upon force. Jesus
alone founded His empire upon love, and to this very day millions
would die for Him . . . I tell you, all these were men, and I am a
man; no one else is like Him; Jesus Christ was more than man . . . All
who sincerely believe in Him experience that remarkable supernatural
love towards Him. This phenomenon is unaccountable; it is altogether
beyond the scope of man’s creative powers.”

Now, with all that said, how do we actually accomplish such a lofty
task of loving difficult people? That’s where the rubber meets the
road, because people don’t see our intentions, only our actions and
lives.

3. We need to look beyond people’s attitudes.

When we look at someone from a human standpoint, all we see is how
mean, grumpy, or unlovable they may be.

It would be hard, if not impossible, to love difficult people when we
view them from such a perspective. But we need to look beyond their
attitudes. What looks like arrogance might actually be insecurity.
What manifests as anger might probably be caused by pain or depression
(I know I’m guilty of being in this category at times). The bottom
line is that we don’t know what a person might be going through or why
they behave the way they do.

Another thing we must keep in mind is how much God values them. God
loves people and wants to see them saved. And we have clearly been
told to share His word and make disciples of all nations. We all need
help. Where would we be without the help and prayers of others?

And that’s what other people need as well—someone else to help them.
While the reality is that some people will reject God’s love, there is
a group that needs help to see the truth. They need to be loved, and
led into the truth and a saving relationship with Christ. And since we
don’t know who belongs to which group, it is our duty to share the
gospel with all and to love all.

Some of the most unlovable people I know have become wonderful and
faithful children of God. Years ago, I was working with three other
guys, one of them absolutely hated God; he constantly blamed God for
his hurts and bitterness. One time, I wasn’t even going to include
this individual when I was praying for my co-workers. I almost wrote
him off as a lost cause. Yet I felt the Lord urge me to include his
name. In the end, guess which of the three guys ended up becoming an
on-fire Christian?

We are called to love all—even the unlovable. And while we won’t be
perfect, we can love in a way that honors God. We can be a light to
others, and truly make a difference in the lives of those around us.

