http://ymi.today/2016/10/how-a-message-on-a-t-shirt-convinced-me-to-
break-up/

How a Message on a T-Shirt Convinced Me to Break Up

Author: by Contributor

Written By Noni Elina, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Like many other girls, I have wished for a boyfriend since primary
school. However, because I was a shy bookworm, I only ever played the
part of secret admirer.

Then one day in high school, another student asked me out. Zainul* was
tall and athletic, and his eyelashes were the envy of many girls. I
had secretly been attracted to him since school started, and we began
dating officially in 11th grade.

I was not a born-again Christian at the time, but I attended an annual
youth camp that was organized by my church. God used the camp to
change me—He changed my views about how I should live. I learned to
reflect on God’s Word, and I experienced His beautiful love.

As I learned more about God through my daily devotions, I became
uncomfortable about being with Zainul. The Holy Spirit repeatedly
reminded me that my relationship with Zainul was not right. Zainul was
a nice man and a good Muslim who attended weekly recitation. Though he
did not do anything to hurt me, we became more distant because of our
different faiths. I couldn’t discuss with him what I learned from
God’s Word during my daily devotions, and was therefore bored with our
conversations at times. I realized that we were not a suitable couple,
and after explaining to him that we would never have a future
together, we broke up.

To be honest, letting go of someone as sincere as Zainul was not easy.
Most women like to be cared for and admired, and I liked it too. My
affection for him did not disappear, and it hurt to be distant from
Zainul. Though we had broken up, we still spent time together, and
were in an unofficial relationship until we were in 12th grade. All
that time I negotiated with God, saying, “I will be your daughter and
fully obey you later on, God, but not now. Let me enjoy the time with
Zainul, at least until we graduate.”

Attending youth camp and serving in church did not automatically turn
my life around. I still made compromises and stayed close to Zainul
because I thought I loved him.

One day, Zainul asked me to go shopping with him in a department store
in our city. He wanted to buy a T-shirt, and we looked for a long
time. Finally, he held up two T-shirts and asked me to help him choose
one. I was tired from looking at so many shirts and wanted to leave.
Without much thought, I chose the white T-shirt with colorful
lettering. It formed a sentence in English, but I was too tired to
read it.

The next day, Zainul came by my home as usual, wearing the white
T-shirt we had bought together. In the middle of our conversation, I
tried to read the letters on his shirt, and couldn’t believe my eyes.
This is what was printed on his T-shirt:

For God so loved the world that He gave His One and only Son, that
whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life. —John
3:16



I told Zainul what his T-shirt said, and Zainul was quiet for a
moment. I had chosen the T-shirt because I liked the design, and had
not read the words carefully. I would not have deliberately made
Zainul wear that T-shirt. Of the hundreds of shirts at the store, how
was it possible that we had chosen this very one?

Our meeting ended on a strange note. Zainul gave me the shirt the next
day, thinking that it was more suitable for me. I accepted it, and
spent time thinking about the situation.

That’s when I realized that the T-shirt was God’s way of reminding me
that He loves me perfectly. He is the Lord that died on the cross to
save me from my sins. He wants me to spend an eternity with Him, but I
had hurt Him by choosing to love another person more than Him. That
night, I cried in my room and asked God for forgiveness for all that I
had done.

With the help of the Holy Spirit, I ended my unofficial relationship
with Zainul. Though he kept sending me short messages, I completely
ignored him. It was not that I didn’t want to be his friend anymore,
but I knew my own weakness and I knew that to respond to him would
only make me vulnerable again. I kept praying and found encouragement
in God’s Word, as well as support from fellow believers. God changed
my heart. When I focused on Him, my feelings for Zainul slowly
disappeared. It is impossible to do anything without the help of the
Holy Spirit. Only God can free us from the affection we have for
someone if we depend on Him alone (2 Corinthians 12:9). Only God can
free us from the affection we have for someone if we depend on Him
alone (2 Corinthians 12:9).

Attending university offered more opportunities to meet unbelieving
male friends, but my principles of relationship have since changed. I
do not even consider the possibility of falling in love with a man who
does not love Jesus, much less anyone who does not even know Him. This
principle has guided me till now, and I have enjoyed my beautiful time
as a single—with God.

Spiritual growth only happens when we are obedient, and dating an
unbeliever never helps us grow more rooted in the Lord. I need to be
in a relationship that would point me to Jesus, helping me live for
Him.

Today, I desire to obey God with all of my heart, soul, and mind
(Matthew 22:37). To do so, I must get rid of all competing loves in my
heart—including letting go of feelings of attraction towards those who
do not love God (2 Corinthians 6:14).



*Not his real name.

