http://ymi.today/2015/10/what-do-you-know-for-sure/

What Do You Know For Sure?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Cassandra Bellamy, USA

“What do you know for sure?”

This was the question American talk show host Oprah Winfrey would
often ask her guests at the end of each interview on her wildly
popular talk show. In each issue of her own magazine, O, The Oprah
Magazine, she writes about the things she knows for sure—discovered
through life experiences—and her “Ah ha” moments.

There are few things in this world, however, that we can confidently
say that “we know for sure.” When I was growing up, I thought I knew
everything. I was sure about what I wanted to do with my life, career-
wise. But once I was out of college and with no job in sight, I found
myself questioning God about my future. Having to cope with a birth
deformity didn’t make things any better—I was born with
Arthrogryposis, a condition which limits my mobility and is noticeable
when I walk and sit, and even affects my voice.

With no job security, the limitations of my physical condition, and
little in the way of social life, I suffered from low self-esteem. I
became lonely and could not see my purpose in life.

But then I found hope in God’s Word. God’s messages to Jeremiah were
particularly encouraging. But then I found hope in God’s Word. God’s
messages to Jeremiah were particularly encouraging. In Jeremiah 1:5,
He tells Jeremiah, “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, before
you were born I set you apart, I appointed you as a prophet to the
nations.” And in Jeremiah 29:11, God says, “For I know the plans I
have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give
you hope and a future.”

These verses inspired me to start praying to God to show me the gifts
He had given me. Before long, I stopped feeling lonely. And recently,
I realized that I have the gift of encouraging others. By the grace of
God, I am now working as an early childhood educator.

Through His Word and my experiences, I have gained the confidence to
say that I know “for sure” that God loves us so much that “he gave his
one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but
have eternal life” (John 3:16). Doubt no longer fills my mind when
things do not go my way, nor do I feel a sense of loneliness when
there are no friends around. I know God loves me and has a purpose not
just for me, but for all of us. We just have to trust Him.

Now that’s an “Ah ha” moment!

