http://ymi.today/2017/02/the-waiting-room-called-singleness/

The Waiting Room Called “Singleness”

Author: by Contributor

Written By Emily Burrill, USA

There’s a raging party that is sweeping across the world.

It’s exciting. It’s trendy. It has confetti and sparkly dresses and
loud music. It’s desired by many. And it makes for some really swell
Instagram photos.

There is also a waiting room to get into the party. The waiting room
is dull. Its walls are bland and colorless. It’s crowded but full of
empty people that desperately want to get invited to the party.

This is the sad reality of singleness in college. It is viewed as
lonely, depressing, and weak. It’s a waiting room. All of these girls
are waiting. Waiting for a chance for a cute boy with a hipster
haircut and mad long boarding skills to ask them out on a date so they
can finally take part in that raging party of being in a couple.

The more they wait, the more hopeless they become. They see more and
more people being invited to the party. They see more and more
marriage engagements on Facebook. They see more and more cute couple
videos on YouTube. And while they wait, they deteriorate.

The waiting room destroys. It destroys self-esteem. It destroys
confidence. It destroys body image. It destroys self-image.  It
destroys from the inside out.

Soon, they start thinking they are not good enough to be loved. They
are not pretty enough. They are not smart enough. They are not
interesting enough. They are fat and ugly. They are not attractive to
any man. It is their fault they are single.

Before long, they are completely hopeless. The only thing they have
left is a lifeless shell of their exterior with nothing but self-
loathing on the inside.

Ladies, the waiting room is a lie.

It is a lie that is handed to us directly from the hand of the devil.
This lie is meant to empty us from the inside out. To leave us
hopeless, depressed, anxious, broken and left with nothing.

The devil has lured us into the waiting room and made us obsessed with
one goal: to get the guy, to date him, to get engaged to him, and to
marry him. While that desire is valid and something I want as well, we
may have unwittingly made this the most important goal in our life.

So this is my question: When did the guy become the goal instead of
God?

Matthew 6:21 states, “For where your treasure is, there your heart
will be also.” In other words, what you place as your goal is where
your heart truly is. We have treasured a boy above God. We have
desired a relationship with a man above a relationship with our
Creator. We have destined ourselves to an end goal of marriage rather
than a goal of everlasting life with our Father.

So to all my single friends, don’t wait in the waiting room. The devil
created it in a desperate attempt to weaken our self-identity and to
distract us from the truth. We have been blinded to think that waiting
for a man is like waiting for a party. A party that is too cool and
too rad for us. The party is a lie. Ask anyone in a relationship. The
reality of coupling isn’t as great as they portray on Instagram. Yes,
it is a gift. But it is not the goal.

We have got to stop seeing relationships as the goal and singleness as
a period of mundane waiting. We can partake in the greatest party in
the history of humanity—a relationship with God. Growing closer to
Him, loving Him, being with Him, all while investing in relationships
with your girl friends, your guy friends, and your family. You can be
unattached. You can go places. You can do things. You can empower. You
can grow. You can have strength.

The waiting room is a place of destruction. It’s time to step out and
live. Ladies, we are strong. We are influential. We have the power to
do things that couples can’t do. We are undistracted. We have more
time. We can empower.

Singleness is strength. And that is the truth.

So, my encouragement to you: Stand up, leave that waiting room, and
live.

While you live, remember the truth; he’s not the goal. He’s the goal.

