http://ymi.today/2016/01/the-day-my-instagram-account-was-stolen/

The Day My Instagram Account Was Stolen

Author: by Amy Ji

A couple of days ago, I woke up to a dozen or so messages on my phone
telling me, in essence, that my Instagram account had been hacked.

Apparently, after I went to bed the night before, my account had been
taken over by an unknown person who proceeded to upload photos in my
name. It was horrifying to see strange photographs of advertisements
for handphone covers in an unknown language on my Instagram feed. In
just one night, I had lost my Instagram identity which I had
painstakingly built over years.

I couldn’t control what was being uploaded because the account had
been compromised. The user settings had been tampered with such that
others could see my feed, but I was logged out of my own account.

I tried everything I knew, changing the log-in details, reporting that
I had forgotten my password, and reporting the user to Instagram
itself. In the meantime, more and more people were alerting me about
the situation, flooding my phone with screenshots of my hijacked
account, making me even more anxious. Frantic, I paced up and down the
house mumbling to myself, “What am I going to do?”

Then my husband asked me a question that stopped me in my tracks.
“What are you so anxious about? It’s only an Instagram account,” he
said.

My immediate reaction was to shout back, “It’s not just an Instagram
account!” Indeed, it was a treasure trove of memories of special
events such as our wedding. I feared that I would never be able to get
any of this back, and at that moment, the loss felt overwhelming.

Yet, I knew my husband was right. It was only an Instagram account.
Why was I getting so frustrated and upset?

After spending a whole day without access to Instagram, I discovered
the answer. My account meant so much to me because it had become my
public identity. It was a collection of photos I had curated that I
believed represented myself, my life, and my family. Not that this
identity was false, but it was something that took much work to keep
up. In carefully selecting, editing, and making every effort to make
my feed look effortless, I had allowed the process to become part of
who I was.

The fact that I was so upset about not being able to access my account
also showed me how much time I had been spending on it, to a point
where I was practically obsessed with it.

This entire episode revealed how easily I had been distracted from my
walk with God. It frightened me that something seemingly harmless
could consume so much of my time, emotions, and energy. I had fretted
over an identity that was superficial and temporal, instead of
rejoicing over how my sinful self was made righteous through Jesus’
death on the cross. I had fretted over an identity that was
superficial and temporal, instead of rejoicing over how my sinful self
was made righteous through Jesus’ death on the cross.

The day after, Instagram restored my account. All the strange photos
were removed, and I got access to my feed again. While I still do not
know how my account had been hacked into, the episode served as a
glaring reminder of how my attitude towards Instagram had to change.
What I had once subconsciously regarded as my public identity, will
now simply be a place to share my life and appreciate what others put
up.

It’s wonderful to have my account restored, but what’s greater is the
restoration to God that I have in Christ.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



