http://ymi.today/2016/09/what-if-your-neighbor-is-a-prostitute/

What If Your Neighbor is a Prostitute?

Author: by Contributor

Written by M. Tiong, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

A few scantily-dressed women flirt with passers-by in a dimly lit
alley. Some of them strike up conversations and bargain with potential
customers, while others wait around for customers to offer them a
price.

It’s not an unfamiliar scene to many of us: we’ve either seen it in
the movies or witnessed it in real life. In Amsterdam, where
prostitution is legal, I saw prostitutes being displayed in glass
cubicles—as though they were clothes on sale—for people to pick and
choose.

Like it or not, the sex industry is booming because of society’s
demand for sex services. So, how should we as believers respond? Or
should we turn a blind eye to it?

A few years ago when I was on my graduation trip, I encountered three
women, likely in their 20s, on the bus in Pahang, Malaysia. It was
about 6am in the morning. They were skimpily dressed and were crying.
One of them had a badly bruised face and could barely stand. The rest
of the people on the bus either ignored them or stared at them
strangely.

One of the ladies approached me and asked in broken English if they
could borrow my mobile phone to make a call because they didn’t have
any money on them. My friend immediately nudged me and warned me not
to lend my phone to them in case they took off with it. But I felt for
them, so I decided to do so.

Not only did they return it afterwards, but they also smiled at me and
thanked me profusely for the kind gesture. Just before I stepped off
the bus, I handed them some money. Later on, I received a call from an
unknown number. The voice on the other end was a male’s. He asked me
where I was located, so he could “collect them back”. After the
conversation, I was pretty sure those ladies I had met were sex
workers.

Till this day, I can still remember the look of gratitude on their
faces. I believe God was teaching me a lesson about extending love to
everyone—regardless of who they are and their status in society (Luke
10:27; Matthew 25:40).

God himself exemplified this radical love by making a prostitute named
Rahab part of His plans for Israel. In Joshua 2, we read about how she
helped the Israelite spies escape. In return, God saved her entire
family. He loved her and later, gave her the status of a well-
respected married woman (Matthew 1:5). She is even listed in Jesus’
lineage! (Matthew 1)

Rahab’s story and transformation shows us how God does not look at our
background and status. He is interested only in our faith and
obedience. So, if God treats these individuals with the same grace and
mercy that He treats us, who are we to ignore or discriminate against
them?

Here are four practical ways in which I believe we can respond:

Let’s pray that these prostitutes will come to believe in God and find
His love and peace in their situations—especially if they are not
there by choice. May God give them the means—both physical and
financial—to get out of this industry and be able to receive healing.

Let’s also pray that God will open the eyes of those involved in
growing and supporting this industry, to realize the evil of the
industry and the lives that have been destroyed.



We need to also pray for ourselves. May God grant us compassionate
hearts to love and care for them whenever the opportunity arises. Even
though we disagree with what they do, we ought to love each of them,
just as God loves us and calls us to do so.



Most of the time, we react without fully understanding the situations
of these individuals. We need to spend time to read about their
struggles and find out more about the issues. This will help us better
understand them and know how to help them.



There are many volunteering opportunities. It could simply be to
befriend a former sex worker, provide them with jobs to learn new
skills, or to help take care of their children. We can also donate to
support organizations involved in reaching out to these individuals.



I try to make the conscious effort to read up about the plight of
these individuals and pray for them. Ultimately, our basic response
should be that of love. Whether it is a stranger or someone we know
personally, at the end of the day, they are our neighbors.

Let’s heed the call from Luke 10:27 and Matthew 25:40 to love our
neighbors as we love ourselves.

