http://ymi.today/2017/04/when-good-friday-doesnt-seem-so-good/

When Good Friday doesn’t seem so good

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

For most of my life, Good Friday primarily served as a heads-up for a
nice candy-gorge. I glossed over what it really represented,
anticipating instead the large egg-hunts with my cousins around my
grandparents’ farm on Easter Sunday.

It was only a few years ago that I gained a painful understanding of
the true significance of Good Friday. That happened when one of my
closest friends from middle school, Erica, died suddenly in a car
accident. All throughout late elementary and middle school, Erica and
I had been joined at the hip. We attended summer camps together, were
pairs for science-class projects, and even had our 15 minutes of fame
at a statewide jump rope competition (yes, you read correctly: jump
rope).

We communicated less as we went through college and pursued separate
ways after graduating, but we never lost our mutual respect and
affection. I had planned to contact her after the Easter holiday to
reconnect before she moved overseas for missions work.

But in the late night hours of Good Friday, I learned that Erica had
died in a car accident while driving home that day. It was
inconceivable. In the wake of her death, I was confronted with the
reality of how wrong and intrusive death could feel.

Yes, death is wrong. We weren’t designed to experience the sudden
separation of death. But because of the Fall of man, death became part
and parcel of life. Suddenly, I had a glimpse of the confusion, anger,
and sadness that the disciples of Jesus experienced when He died.

But then, I also saw hope. The day I had previously ignored—Good
Friday—commemorates two things. One, the torture and wrongful murder
of the one who claimed to be the world’s Savior; two, the “good”
result His death achieved: a way out of death for us! His resurrection
three days later, which we commemorate on Easter Sunday, gives us hope
for a lasting solution to death.

What has been of immense encouragement to me are the words that Jesus
gave His disciples in John 16:33 before His crucifixion, which
summarize the incomparably low moments of Good Friday and the
unsurpassed high of Easter. Jesus told them, “I have told you these
things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have
trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world.”

Today, we still experience effects of the fall. The emotions and pain
that Jesus’ disciples felt still exist in this life. But even when we
experience these extreme lows, we have the truth of Easter to hold on
to. Jesus has already overcome the wrong by taking our place on the
cross, and, accrediting His righteousness to us, declared, “it is
finished” (John 19:30).

Knowing that Erica had fully accepted Jesus as her Savior, I look
forward to seeing her again one day. And hey, for old time’s sake,
maybe we’ll go ahead and earn another ribbon with our old jump rope
routine!

