http://ymi.today/2016/12/why-didnt-i-give-more/

Why Didn’t I Give More?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charles Christian, Indonesia

Once, while my friends and I were having dinner, a skinny boy in a
worn-out t-shirt and shorts approached us to sell tissue paper.

Initially, we didn’t respond as we weren’t interested in buying any.
But the boy, probably about 10, kept standing there, with a hopeful
look on his face.

Finally, one of my friends asked, “How much is the tissue, brother?”

“5,000 rupiah,” he said.

She whipped out a 5,000 rupiah note (USD $0.40) from her wallet and
handed it to the boy. After giving her a packet of tissue, the boy
moved on to the next table.

It then occurred to me that the tissue in my car was about to run out.
And since the price of the tissue the boy had quoted was the same as
what I had paid the last time I bought tissue from a shop, I went up
to buy a packet from the boy, just before we left the place.

As I traveled home that day, I couldn’t help but think about the boy.

How many rejections had he faced that day? How much money did he earn?
Did he have enough to meet his needs? What if I had bought five packs
instead of one and given him 50,000 rupiah?

Perhaps that would have allowed him to take a break for the day. Or
perhaps it would have motivated him to work even harder, knowing that
his efforts would pay off. Or better still, it might have led him to
believe that there are people in this world who care enough about
people like him.

Suddenly, I regretted that I had bought only one pack of tissue from
him. At least he was trying to make a livelihood by honest means
instead of begging. If I had thought about all this earlier, I would
have been able to show love to someone who might be desperately
craving it.

Then I realized the ugly truth: The reason why none of these thoughts
had crossed my mind earlier was that I had been too preoccupied in my
own needs. The reason why none of these thoughts had crossed my mind
earlier was that I had been too preoccupied in my own needs. All I had
considered was: Did I need the tissue? Was the price he quoted
reasonable? What’s in it for me?

My focus had been on the “I”. It was only when I took time later to
evaluate my actions that I considered the boy’s needs instead.

God wants us to consider the needs of others before ourselves. The
Bible tells us in Philippians 2:3-4, “in humility value others above
yourselves, not looking to your own interests but each of you to the
interests of the others.”

In fact, Jesus goes one step further to identify himself with this
group of people, saying that “whatever you did for one of the least of
these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.” (Matthew 25:40).
What this means is that any opportunity to give what we have—our time,
energy, or money—to someone in need, is an opportunity to serve Jesus.

Shouldn’t that inspire us to give more, and to give often?

