http://ymi.today/2015/08/4-facts-about-making-a-friendship-work/

4 Facts About Making A Friendship Work

Author: by Contributor

Written By Michelle Chun, Malaysia

Anna* and I have been close friends since I was 10. If you knew us,
you’d probably wonder why we’re friends. At times, I do, too. Sure, we
share fond childhood memories, but we’re no longer the little girls we
used to be. We don’t have common interests, nor do we move in the same
circles. We don’t exactly “click”—carrying a conversation can be an
effort at times, and lengthy silences are a norm when we hang out.

Yet she’s one of the most important people in my life.

Many friendships these days are easy come, easy go. Media and the
digital age make it so easy to make friends. We have many different
social circles (work, school, church, sports, etc.) to hop in and out
of, and endless possibilities when it comes to things to do and places
to go. On the way, we make friends, adding to the ones we already
have. We also lose friends.

Once we reach our 20s, we may discover that while we have many
friends, only a handful are the ones we’d call if we can’t sleep or
need prayer, counsel, or emergency compliments. They’re also the ones
we know would call us if they ever needed quiet company—or just a lame
joke.

Anna’s that kind of friend. It would have been easy to let this
friendship fade away, as she’s been living on the other side of the
world for the past six years. Choosing to work at its, however, is one
of the best decisions I’ve made. And I’ve learnt a few things along
the way:

1. Friendship is hard work. No matter what the next big social app
tells us, let’s not be fooled. Friendship is more than accepting a
“Friend Request” or “following” a friend. It requires commitment,
patience, and sacrifice. It can mean having to brave the traffic jam
for a half-hour catch-up session instead of watching our favorite
television series, or resisting the urge to say “I told you so” when a
friend regrets making a decision we’d advised him or her against. It
means making time for Skype calls even when time zones just seem to
work against us. Friendship is hard work.

2. Friendship is about growing together. Proverbs 17:17 is a popular
verse when it comes to talking about the value of friendships. “A
friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for a time of
adversity.” Isn’t the Bible full of wisdom? I’m always in awe at how
timeless God’s word is, and how applicable it is no matter the century
or culture. Friendship is about growing together, about choosing to
love (and be loved) at all times; our friends shouldn’t be projects
we’re trying to fix. It’s about being a tangible expression of God’s
love to each other, and about challenging each other to grow in the
grace and knowledge of Jesus Christ. Iron sharpens iron!

3. Friendship isn’t about being everyone’s friend. Being a good friend
is not about being a people pleaser. I’ve come across a number of
people over the years who have given in and given up so much to be
“cool” or to fit in, but wake up one day to realize they’ve completely
lost every sense of who they are. The truth is, not everyone will want
to be our friend, and we won’t want to be everyone’s friend too. And
that’s perfectly okay. We have the best example of a true friend in
Jesus, so let’s walk in His footsteps and let Him shine through us!
He’ll strengthen us to be the best kind of friend we can be to those
around us.

4. Friendship is priceless. You can’t buy a true friend. In a culture
where friendship is so loosely defined, and commitment and loyalty are
not always prized, finding someone who truly loves us, wants the best
for us, and is willing to walk and grow with us, is rare. They are
there, though! When we do find them, we should keep them close to our
hearts. For me, Anna’s a priceless pearl.

Remember, too, that if we want to have good friends, we must first be
friendly ourselves. What an example we have in Jesus! He loves us as
we are, and guides and leads us along the way so we can live out the
wonderful purpose our Father has for us.

With Christ in us, we can be a great friend to others.

*Name changed



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Life Hacks“

