http://ymi.today/2017/05/why-i-stopped-full-time-work/

Why I Quit My Full-Time Job

Author: by Contributor

Written by Clare H, Singapore

Two years ago, God called my husband and I to take a year off work to
spend time seeking Him.

We had just completed our sixth year of work. So I quit my job while
my husband took no pay leave. And from May 2015 to May 2016, we
attended a discipleship course in church, volunteered our time at
various church ministries, and visited different individuals. It was a
full 12 months of doing things for God, which many people would
probably consider a “fruitful” and “meaningful” use of time.

Fast forward to 12 months later. My husband went back to secular work
as called by the Lord. I, on the other hand, didn’t feel God prompting
me to go back to full-time secular work, so I embarked on what many
people would call a very “different” journey. I know some would view
how I spent my past year as a “waste of time”, but, as I’ve learned
over the year, the definition of “fruitfulness” differs for everyone.

You see, over the past 11 months, I have been working part-time in an
administrative role. And because I am working part-time, my monthly
salary is a fraction of what I used to earn.

On top of that, I no longer qualify for employee benefits like
allowances, annual leave, and medical leave. Things that I could once
easily afford are now luxury items that I need to carefully consider
whether to purchase. So why did I choose this path? you might ask.

I’ve asked myself the same question. Why did I leave a full-time job
to take on something part-time which does not pay me enough to feed
myself? (Note: my husband has been supporting me by co-paying for my
expenses.)

Truth be told, I felt rather aimless the first few weeks. Apart from
working three half-days per week, I stayed at home and did some
household chores. With so much time on my hands, I started to do what
I enjoyed doing: I read the Bible and played worship songs on the
guitar and the keyboard.

The thing is, I don’t have much training in music. So, in the
beginning, I struggled to figure out the chords, play them according
to the timing, and sing at the same time. After some months, however,
I realized that my fingers were moving pretty much on their own
without me having to try to follow the score or timing. They were
moving to random melodies—which, surprisingly, actually made musical
sense to my ears. That triggered my interest in writing simple worship
songs for the Lord.

It wasn’t always smooth-sailing, of course. But on occasions when the
melodies just flowed, I felt as though I was directly downloading the
tunes from God. Once, as I played one of the tunes and sang the lyrics
that God gave me, I felt myself being ministered to by the Lord
himself; tears kept rolling down my cheeks and I just couldn’t stop.

In that song, I was reminded of the truth that no one compares to God,
for He is God most high: He is our God, our Lord, our strength, and
our King. He is sovereign and is worthy of our worship. And there is
nowhere else we would rather be than to be in the presence of His
Glory.

At that moment, I realized that perhaps this was exactly what God was
calling me to do: to take time to worship Him. At that moment, I
realized that perhaps this was exactly what God was calling me to do:
to take time to worship Him. And though it may not seem that big of a
deal to others, I knew it was a fruitful use of my time.

In all honesty, I wished I had more “song downloads” from God over the
past few months. At the same time, I am reminded of the Parable of the
Talents (Matthew 25:14-30). Both the servant who was given five
talents and came back with another five, and the servant who was given
two talents and came back with another two, received the same response
from their Master, “Well done, good and faithful servant! You have
been faithful with a few things; I will put you in charge of many
things. Come and share your master’s happiness!” (Matthew 25:23)

Through these 11 months, I’ve come to realize in a very personal way
that fruitfulness is not always measured by what we reap materially.
It does not mean making the most money. It does not mean gaining the
best reputation. It does not mean gaining power in the corporate world
or climbing the corporate ladder. It does not mean being fashionable
or always having new clothes and accessories to wear and gadgets to
hold. It does not mean eating at the best restaurants or knowing when
or where the next Michelin Star restaurant is opening at.

Fruitfulness is doing what God wants you to do. And it’s not even
about quantity or quality—it’s about our heart. (Matthew 5:8)

It’s hard being the oddball. It’s hard having no full-time job. It’s
hard earning so little. It’s hard saying no to friends and sometimes
even family. It’s hard not following common paths. It’s hard resisting
the world. But it’s even harder to live a life without God. (Matthew
7:13-14)

My dear friends, I may not know you personally or know what you’re
going through right now. But I do know that God has a perfect plan for
you to be abundantly fruitful, according to His ways and His will.

