http://ymi.today/2015/09/born-this-way-a-cause-to-celebrate/

Born This Way: A Cause to Celebrate?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Christine E., USAA few years ago, Lady Gaga came out with
her hit song “Born This Way”—which I still hear over the radio often.
It’s catchy, and I’m sure many of us could easily sing along to the
chorus. But I recently took a closer look at the lyrics, and became
rather concerned. The gist is that there’s nothing wrong with loving
and being proud of who we are because God made us perfect and He makes
no mistakes.

This message echoes what the world tells us: embrace who we are. There
is certainly some truth to this statement, since we each have unique
experiences and gifts that God calls us to celebrate by using in the
service of others. It is dangerous, however, to take this view to an
extreme.

As the lyrics say, God makes no mistakes. The problem is that we
humans make a whole lot of them. As the lyrics say, God makes no
mistakes. The problem is that we humans make a whole lot of them. When
God made Adam and Eve, He made them in His own image, and He declared
them “very good” (Genesis 1). But Adam and Eve chose to disobey God,
and so invited sin and death into this world (Genesis 3). Things have
been messed up ever since, and because of our sin, we are not perfect,
but very flawed instead.

As humans, we constantly struggle with sin. I am prideful, stubborn,
and argumentative, for example. Some of us may struggle with
alcoholism or addiction. Others might be pathological gossips. Our
innate personalities certainly play a large role in who we are, but
these flaws are certainly not cause for celebration.

God created me to bear His image (Genesis 1:27), but through my
imperfections and a whole host of bad lifestyle choices and attitudes,
I have perverted that beautiful image. My behavior often hurts those
around me and breaks God’s heart. I am not the person God intended me
to be. As David once wrote, “Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from
the time my mother conceived me” (Psalm 51:5). Being “born this way”
is not an excuse for my actions; it is a great tragedy that I am
cursed to struggle with daily.

But there is hope! David continues by praying to God: “Cleanse me with
hyssop, and I will be clean; wash me, and I will be whiter than snow”
(Psalm 51:7). Though we are stained by our sinful thoughts and
actions, God is ultimately able to wash us clean. Jesus “has freed us
from our sins by His blood” (Revelation 1:5). My sins are no longer
counted against me, and I will not let them define who I am.

“But thanks be to God! He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus
Christ” (1 Corinthians 15:57). By God’s grace, I can fight against the
sin I was born with. Though I will likely struggle against certain
sins for the rest of my life, I rest in the knowledge that my fight
has already been won by Jesus Christ when He died on the cross for me.
And that one day, I too will be made perfect, the way God always
intended me to be.

