http://ymi.today/2015/09/what-if-god-was-a-bowl-of-ice-cream/

What if God was “A Bowl of Ice Cream”?

Author: by Michele Ong

Of all the presents I received for my eighth birthday—coloring books,
fancy stationery, and toys— the children’s Bible was the best gift. I
recall racing through Genesis to Jude, but staying away from
Revelation because I did not like thinking about the End Times.

At the age of 12, I gave my life to Jesus. But shortly after, I was
left speechless when my cousin asked me what I would do if I went to
heaven and found out that God was a bowl of ice cream. I was left
speechless when my cousin asked me what I would do if I went to heaven
and found out that God was a bowl of ice cream. “Like this one here,”
he said, pointing to my dessert. “What happens then? Wouldn’t it be a
waste of all your years of serving Him if He turns out to be a bowl of
dessert?”

Having grown up in a Christian home, I had no idea how to answer
him—it had never occurred to me to question God’s existence. While
there were times when I had wondered if He answered prayers—like the
time I failed my science paper and was about to get a scolding from my
parents—I had always held on to my belief in God.

I mulled over my cousin’s statement for a while, then asked him what
would happen if he went to heaven only to find out there was a God.
“But what if there isn’t?” he insisted.

My cousin would not be the only person to ask me if I believed in the
existence of an omnipresent, omniscient, and omnipotent God. It is not
easy to wrap one’s head around the fact that God existed before time,
and that He created the Heavens and the Earth (Genesis 1:1).

But when I look around me at all the living creatures and up at the
night sky with its faraway galaxies and multitude of stars, everything
points to a Mastermind behind creation.

Over and above that, the foundation of my belief in God is built on
the resurrection of Jesus Christ. As Paul pointed out in 1 Corinthians
15:14, “And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless
and so is your faith.”

The way I see it, Jesus’ apostles would not have risked their lives to
spread the gospel if His resurrection was a myth. After all, what
would have been the point of telling other people about Jesus and
subsequently dying for this man if He was never to be seen again? What
hope would there have been in a cold body? Because Jesus had indeed
risen again from the dead as He said He would, however, His disciples
knew He was not an ordinary man, but the everlasting God.

Having been born 2,000 years after Christ, I was not there to witness
His resurrection. But I am convinced God is real—and not just a bowl
of chocolate ice cream with peanut and fairy sprinkles—when I see the
conviction and obedience of fellow Christians in carrying out God’s
commandment to love one another as He has loved us (John 13:34-35).
But I am convinced God is real—and not just a bowl of chocolate ice
cream with peanut and fairy sprinkles—when I see the conviction and
obedience of fellow Christians in carrying out God’s commandment to
love one another as He has loved us (John 13:34-35).

Two years ago, I volunteered at my church’s annual community day. We
went to help a woman whose house had not seen a mop in two decades.
For four hours, a group of us washed her windows, vacuumed her floor,
and mowed her lawn. The woman could hardly believe it when she saw
strangers pulling up into her driveway by the carloads, all ready to
clean her home.

I’m surprised I did it too. If God was not real, I would not have
climbed out of bed early on a Saturday just to help a stranger clean
her house. But having the faith and knowledge that God exists, and
that we are made for eternity, has helped me shift my focus from
living only for myself towards living a life that leaves behind a
lasting legacy (Ecclesiastes 3:11).

Knowing that God truly exists also means that I can take comfort in
knowing where I’m heading after this life, and that there is a God I
can run to in times of need.

The other thing is that I like a bit of real estate (I used to love
watching home-makeover shows), and it’s exciting to know that heaven
exists too. I can’t wait to get a glimpse of heaven, with its pearly
gates and gold-paved streets as pure as transparent glass (Revelation
21:21). Bye-bye, dirty pedestrian streets littered with gum and pigeon
poo; hello, polished, gleaming streets.

So, does it matter if God exists? To me, it certainly does. And
hopefully, I will be able to lead a life which leaves behind an
eternal legacy that will point people to my Father in Heaven (Matthew
5:16).

Photo credit: Thomas Shawk / Foter / CC BY-NC



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



