http://ymi.today/2017/05/what-missing-my-calling-taught-me/

What Missing “My Calling” Taught Me

Author: by Contributor

Written By Crystal Brockington, USA

She had lost the baby.

When I heard that she was expecting, I was ecstatic. I couldn’t
believe that this woman—whom God had revealed to me a few months prior
that she would conceive this year—was already pregnant! I squealed
with excitement and literally jumped up and down. I couldn’t wait to
rub her belly and watch her wear motherhood like a crown.

But in the midst of our celebration, I felt it—the unmistakable signal
from heaven that God wanted me to do something. For me, it felt like a
sudden intense heat inside my body. Sometimes, it can also feel like
the moment a roller coaster drops, or as though I’ve just eaten three
Thanksgiving dinners.

In this case, the feeling was accompanied by a really strong desire to
pray, along with the certainty that something was not right. Like so
many times before, I could feel the prayer rising from deep, deep
inside of me. If I had opened my mouth, the words would have fallen
out without me even having to think about them.

But I held them in.

I didn’t want to make a scene and I didn’t want to seem dramatic. I
told myself that I could pray for Sara’s* pregnancy longer and better
in my private time with God. I told myself that I was imagining the
fullness and the heat in my stomach, that the prayer which was sitting
in my throat like acid reflux was just a trick my mind was playing.

But experience had taught me better. By this night, I knew that I
could not ignore God when He asks me to interrupt normal life and pray
for people. Sometimes, He tells me things about people and instructs
me to tell them. Most times, I have no idea what I am going to say or
what I am going to pray until I hear the words coming out of my mouth.

I remained speechless, still clutching Sara’s arms and looking beyond
her shoulders long enough for her expression to drop.

“What?” she asked. “Nothing,” I lied. I asked how far along she was.
She responded. It felt like the wind had been knocked out of me as I
heard a voice from above say, “She is going to lose the baby.” The
urge to pray got stronger. I still chose not to do it. My expression
dropped. I shook my head. I hugged her and said congratulations.

I don’t know for certain whether my prayer would have changed this
tragic situation. What I do know is that in that moment, I missed an
opportunity to walk in my calling. Sounds dramatic, but it’s true. Our
culture may have over-complicated “calling” to mean some pinnacle of
our lives or something to be attained, but I am speaking of calling in
its simplest definition—a strong urge towards a particular way of
life.

In that moment, when I fought against the urging of the Holy Spirit to
lead my friends in prayer for Sara’s pregnancy, I knew I was missing
an opportunity to walk in alignment with the Holy Spirit; I was going
against the strong urge to obey God.

Although our lives and our individual purposes differ, at the core we
are all called to the same thing: obedience to God (James 2:14-26;
John 14:23-24). This truth is the true measure of success in our
lives.

Every believer is called to this obedience for the sake of furthering
the kingdom of God. We have all been commanded to love those around us
(Luke 10:29-37; Matt 22:39), to set an example with our lives, and to
make disciples in the process. We are called to crucify our flesh
daily by laying aside every desire that hinders our devotion to Christ
and His Kingdom.

We are called to be salt and light in the very places that we are now.
We don’t need to wait for permission or a sermon to remind us to live
for Christ and His kingdom. We simply need to respond with obedience
to what the Lord is saying. For me, this realization has been quite
the journey, and as you can gather from the story above, it is one
that I am still on.

However, I don’t always get things right in my pursuit of the selfless
obedience. Still, God lovingly, graciously and mercifully restores me
when I fail and strengthens me to keep trying.

In Christ, we are free to run the race that God has set before each of
us. We are free to grow, learn, and to be useful within the Kingdom at
every stage of our development. What that looks like is obedience,
regardless of the life stage we are at. We cannot put off being salt
and light today as we wait to be called tomorrow.

As Christians, we are not to measure success by how much popularity or
profit we attain, but by how much we accomplish our purpose: to hear
what God says and do what He commands at every stage of our lives.
This is the height of our calling.

Consider Noah. The humble man who found favor in the eyes of the Lord
was called to be the man from whom all the inhabitants of the earth
would spring. Only he and those who were connected to him were spared
the judgment of God. Noah’s calling was great, but it was also
realized progressively. When he was living his life righteously, he
had no idea that God was going to instruct him to build an ark in the
middle of the desert. He was simply doing what he could to honor God.
Then, when the instructions were released to him, Noah labored
faithfully in his old age to construct the boat.

Noah walked out that calling his entire life, by living in a way that
honored God and by following specific instructions. We must do the
same.

Christian culture today has a somewhat romantic view of what it means
to be called by God. The phrase churns up images of powerful
ministries and reaching the unreached people groups. Not everyone’s
manifestation of the Great Commission looks like this, however.

Being the Church extends far beyond formal services and preaching
engagements. We are all called to partake in ministry, but not all of
us can be employed by the church. Some of us are called to be
accountants, to bring Biblical wisdom to the business sectors of
society. Others are called to bring encouragement to the lost or
hurting as they bag their groceries at the local supermarket. Some
others are called to teach, and to fervently pray for generations of
children as they pass through our classrooms year after year.

At this point in my life, I am called to write and to pray. I am
called to encourage those around me who seem downcast. I am called to
say whatever God tells me to say to whomever He sends me. It is an
unglamorous but meaningful time when I yield to His Spirit and, moment
by moment, walk the path that He is setting before me.

Yes, some callings are more glamorous by the world’s standards, but
none are higher or lower by God’s standards. Yes, some callings are
more glamorous by the world’s standards, but none are higher or lower
by God’s standards. Whether a pastor shepherding in a mega-church or a
mother shepherding her children and the local Girl Scout troop, we
will all stand before the Lord and have our works judged one day. I
don’t know about you, but from today on, I want to build only things
that can withstand the testing of God. This means taking actions that
are motivated by my love for God and a desire to bring glory to His
name—and not simply to make a name for myself.

Today, we can aim for victory tomorrow by wholeheartedly applying
ourselves to the situations and opportunities that the Lord has set us
in now. We can choose obedience over pride. We can lay down the idols
that we erect in our hearts when we strive for higher callings by
choosing the highest calling in every moment: obedience.



*Not her real name

