http://ymi.today/2015/10/look-up/

Look Up!

Author: by Contributor

Written By Desiree U. Angeles, Philippines

I was stuck in a cab in heavy traffic one day when I spotted a
billboard sign which said, “Look up, young man.—God”. That day, I was
heading to Makati, a city which is 15 miles away from my hometown, to
attend an appointment. I was running late, and feeling utterly
helpless and frustrated. The road works that my cab had to weave in
and out of had added to the delay—and my annoyance.

How often do we get frustrated by tough situations? How often do we
feel down when things don’t go the way we want them to? How often do
we find ourselves alone in life’s challenges?

Reading that message on the billboard instantly reminded me of Joshua
1:9, “Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be
afraid; do not be discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with you
wherever you go.”

Dealing with life’s ups and downs can be tough, especially if we have
to face them alone. That is why it is very important to remember the
presence of the Lord in our lives. As a kid, I remember looking up at
the sky whenever I faced difficult situations—especially at school—and
feeling amazed by how it always managed to go back to being clear and
blue, with fluffy white clouds, in spite of the storms that swept
across it. As a kid, I remember looking up at the sky whenever I faced
difficult situations—especially at school—and feeling amazed by how it
always managed to go back to being clear and blue, with fluffy white
clouds, in spite of the storms that swept across it.

It as though God was telling me, “Don’t worry, my child, I am in
control. No need for you to feel helpless. Look up and see: I am
here.”

It also made me realize how I spend a lot of time being overly-
concerned about things in life. In trying hard to strive for success,
I sometimes get so preoccupied over my own problems that I forget that
there is an omniscient God who knows exactly what I’m facing and cares
deeply for me.

The Lord encourages us to come to Him and seek His counsel, especially
in times when we are in trouble. “Come to me, all you who are weary
and burdened, and I will give you rest.” (Matthew 11:28)

How about you? Have you considered looking to God when things go
wrong?

Photo credit: prosto photos / Foter / CC BY-ND

