http://ymi.today/2017/01/do-you-read-your-bible-for-fun/

Do You Read Your Bible For Fun?

Author: by Contributor

Photo taken by Ian Tan

Written By Karen Kwek

A lifelong scribbler, Karen enjoys the company of friends, a great cup
of tea and seeing the gospel transform hearts and lives. She worked as
a book editor until she and her husband traded peace and quiet for
parenthood. It seemed a good idea at the time.

I spent the whole of November immersed in the countryside of Western
Australia with my family. We brought no work along—no revision (for
the kids), no prep, teaching or writing (for my husband and me).

At several of the Airbnb homes where we stayed, there was no phone
signal, let alone Wi-Fi, only pristine beaches, forests and mountains.
We were looking forward to resting from our school and work routines.
And I wanted to read my Bible for fun.

What? I can hear you thinking, “Do the words ‘fun’ and ‘Bible’ even go
together?”

Okay, I’ll admit that Bible reading probably isn’t Number One on most
sane people’s “Fun” list. We do it, but it’s probably on a different
list altogether—the “Things-That-Are-Good-For-Me-That-I-Don’t-Enjoy”
list, along with cod liver oil supplements and visits to the dentist.

I’m no different, and the thought of Bible reading usually fills me
with mixed feelings, ranging from mild reluctance to guilt and
occasional dread.

But it strikes me that this is unfair to God. The other things on that
list are understandably off-putting, involving degrees of physical
discomfort in return for questionable benefits, whereas God’s Word
costs me nothing and bestows infinite grace, comfort, wisdom and
counsel. So, why don’t I crave it more?

Here are three reasons I can think of:

Maybe you can relate to these reasons or think of more. There are
plenty of ways to counter the feelings and objects that take our time
away from God, from better planning to implementing device-free hours
at home, but let’s leave aside that half of the equation for now and
focus on our motivation for Bible reading in the first place.

It’s probably not enough just to get rid of the obstacles to our
reading. You see, on holiday I didn’t have the time pressure of duties
and deadlines—I could take my time with my 12-month Bible reading
plan, for instance, and not rush to prepare next Sunday’s kids’ Bible
story or answer 10 questions for this Friday’s Bible study.

My usual technology-dependent distractions were also removed. But
helpful as all of this was, it didn’t mean that I automatically
hurried to open my Bible. After all, as in any kind of relationship,
feeling bad or guilty might motivate me to read a few verses once in a
while, but guilt doesn’t make for a lasting engagement. Even a neutral
feeling won’t keep me returning to God’s Word. Put aside one
distraction, and another rushes to take its place.

No, if I’m to enjoy God’s Word, shouldn’t I expect to find something
enjoyable in it? In fact, the scriptures themselves tell us there is
something wonderful about God’s Word that we can expect to see, feel
and appreciate. Psalm 119 repeatedly emphasizes the psalmist’s
enjoyment:

In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. I
will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. I will
delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.

(Psalm 119:14-16, ESV, emphasis added)

The same sentiment can be found in verses 24, 35, 47, 70, 77, 92, 111,
143 and 174—you get the picture! This psalm was penned by a believer
who recognized that the world around him was disappointing,
treacherous and not as it should be, but that God’s Word was
trustworthy, true and satisfying. And how much more so for us who are
living after Old Testament times and can know Jesus, the fulfillment
of God’s promises!

Do you remember that amazing moment recorded for us in Luke 24, when
Jesus appeared to His followers after His resurrection and helped them
see Him in the scriptures?

Then he said to them, “These are my words that I spoke to you while I
was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law of
Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.” Then he
opened their minds to understand the Scriptures, and said to them,
“Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third
day rise from the dead, and that repentance for the forgiveness of
sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from
Jerusalem. (Luke 24:44-47, ESV)

Jesus showed them that He is the fulfillment of God’s Word—“the Word
made flesh”, as John’s Gospel tells us.

Yes, I can go to the Bible to find wisdom and answers useful for
teaching, rebuking, correcting and training myself and others in
righteousness. But even more than that, what a gift I have been given,
that in the Bible’s pages, both Old Testament and New, I can see Jesus
and everything He’s done for those He has saved. To borrow a phrase
from pastor and author John Piper, to pick up my Bible for fun is to
expect to “see the beauty of Jesus in His word”.

Happily, during my holiday, I did pick up the Bible just for fun, and
not only once but several times. Beach-combing, forest-walking and
rock-climbing in peaceful surroundings helped me appreciate God’s
creation more so than in the fast-paced city where I live, and I
wanted to read about His works.

As I reflected on the many things and people I was grateful for, I
also found myself thankful for everything that God has done in Jesus
in their lives and mine. Repentance for the forgiveness of sins has
been proclaimed to me and to you, and we continue to proclaim it to
the world—how awesome is that?

Of course, holidays don’t last forever, so as I get into stride with
2017, I’d like to manage my duties and distractions so that I continue
to pick up the Bible for fun. How about you? Do you find enjoyment in
God’s Word? Why not try looking past the footnotes and cross-
references, and simply enjoy the greatest story ever told—that of the
Savior of the world, as revealed in the precious pages of your Bible?

