http://ymi.today/2016/02/is-love-all-you-really-need/

Is Love All You Really Need?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Bradley Gray, USA

Brad is a lay youth minister, writer and speaker who’s committed to
proclaiming the timeless message of God’s gospel of grace. Whether
through the written or spoken word, his priority remains upholding and
sharing the good news of Christ’s life, death, and resurrection for
lost and broken people. He and his wife, Natalie, do life and ministry
together in Florida, USA.

This world makes much of “love.” It’s in movies, books, art, and
music—it’s basically everywhere. We’re bombarded constantly with the
notion of love—falling in love and being in love—that it seems
impossible for us to escape the idea that love is all you need. But is
it true?

The Beatles, the massively popular and influential English rock band,
seemed to think so, and their song, “All You Need Is Love,” soon
became the watchword of the world. It sounded good and honorable. But
is it really true that love is the solution to all our problems?

One of the biggest films of 2014, Christopher Nolan’s Interstellar,
was publicized as a space exploration film but was in fact a film that
took a deeper look at human emotion and love. One of the pivotal
characters even quips, “Love is the one thing we’re capable of
perceiving that transcends time and space.”

Obviously love matters to us. In fact, doesn’t the Bible say: “And now
these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these
is love?” (1 Corinthians 13:13).

Yet, despite all the ideas of “love” we’ve been told, a lot of reality
doesn’t really look like love at all. With messy relationships and
broken marriages on the rise nowadays, it’s tempting to ask the
question, “Is love even something I want to do? Is love really all I
need?”

I remember having similar thoughts when I first began dating the girl
who’s now my wife. We met on the sidewalk at college—we were walking
in the same direction and ended up going to the same class and sitting
right next to each other. As we got more serious about our
relationship, it became clearer to me that all that the world had led
me into believing about love was false.

The Merriam-Webster dictionary associates love with words such as
“attraction”, “affection”, “desire”, and “feeling”. These are the
words used to describe love, and we’ve come to adopt the same set of
definitions, which turn love into something about us. But selfish love
isn’t love—that’s lust. The world has confused lust—a strong emotion
or intense desire—with love to the point that it’s no longer
questioned. You can concern yourself with pursuing that special
feeling of experiencing love; you can attend countless couples
conferences that teach you how to keep the desire burning after years
of marriage; you can read all the books you want about how to live
with another person and show your affection for them—but if you’re not
been told what true love really is, you might not have really loved at
all.

The ancient Greeks used four different words to describe the feelings
of love. Storge, or familial love, was used for natural affection—such
as the love of parents towards children and children towards parents.
Philia, or brotherly love, was used for siblings and friendships.
Eros, passionate love, from which we get our word “erotic”, is
generally used to describe a “madness of love” and is usually
associated with the phrase, “love at first sight”. This love, while
having enrapturing feelings, sadly often has disastrous results. Much
of what the world says and believes about love is physical and based
on appearances. With our sex-crazed culture, it’s easy to see why the
overwhelming embodiment of love is erotic in nature.

But the last type of love is the love that lasts. Agape is often
regarded as the highest form of love. It encapsulates an unmitigated
and unquestioning love that covers all circumstances. It serves the
other person and it just gives, freely and unconditionally. Agape is
selfless love. And to me, selflessness is the key trait of true love.
Sure there are many other marks of genuine love, such as patience,
perseverance, hope, etc. But selfless love stands out the most to me,
because that’s how Jesus showed His love to me. But selfless love
stands out the most to me, because that’s how Jesus showed His love to
me.

“Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for
his friends” (John 15:13). Through Jesus’s death on the cross for us,
He shows us clearly that the most genuine love is that which is
sacrificial and self-denying. The only type of love that never fails
is selfless love, which is strong and kind.

Of course, that’s not saying that the other qualities of love are
irrelevant and less important. Love will include those other things,
but I feel that they’re not the epitome of true love. For me, love for
my wife is sometimes manifested in the form of flowers and romantic
dinners. But to solely pin all our hopes and dreams on flowers and
food is to trust in something that quickly fades.

I’m learning to love my wife more through greater selflessness. This
has involved simple things such as doing the dishes at 10 o’clock at
night because she had a stressful day at work, getting up early to
work on the lawn so we can spend the rest of the day together, making
sure the laundry is done each week, and surprising her with breakfast
in bed etc. The little things we do can go a long way in expressing
not just our love for the other person, but also how much we love
them.

It’s not a cliché to say that love is all about giving yourself to
another person. Apart from being the uniting of dreams, desires,
lives, and hearts, it’s also about dropping our self-seeking plans in
consideration of the other person’s needs. Love is all about living
selflessly for the good of our significant other.

The love that will stand the test of time is love that doesn’t depend
on reciprocal love. Loving someone and expecting them to return the
favor isn’t true love. The love that each of us really needs—and the
kind that takes a lifetime to learn—is the love that just gives,
regardless of words said, circumstances endured, or wrongs felt.

Selfless love is love that lasts forever. It’s the love Christ showed
the church and the love that we are called to show one another—that’s
all we really need.

