http://ymi.today/2016/01/how-do-i-live-without-him/

How Do I Live Without Him?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Larissa Segara, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Have you heard the story of the little eagle which was raised as a
chicken? Every day, he ate and played with the other chickens, so much
so that he believed that he was one of them. One day, he saw an eagle
flying high above, and gazed at the magnificent bird in awe. On
noticing, the mother hen quickly told him, “That is an eagle, they
live up there. Don’t ever think of being like them, they are different
from the rest of us who stay on the ground.” As a result, the poor
little eagle behaved as a chicken for the rest of his life.

How tragic it is when one does not live according to his or her true
identity! Yet, as redeemed people of God, we often do the same,
leading lives that do not reflect our true identity in Christ.

For almost six years, I let my relationships define my identity. I did
not feel complete without a companion, so I started a relationship
with a non-Christian man without hesitation. At the beginning, I
believed that I could eventually turn him into a Christian.

But things turned out the other way around. As time went by, I became
more and more dependent on my boyfriend. I started to distance myself
from my family, friends, and even from God. I devoted my life entirely
to my boyfriend, and started to believe that I could not live without
him. That’s when I realized there was something wrong with my
thinking—my boyfriend had become my idol. But I did not know what to
do. Even when problems arose and we started to grow apart—to the point
when he wanted to end our relationship—I refused to let him go. We had
talked about our future together, and I did not want it to end. So, I
tried my best to keep the relationship going.

Five years into our relationship, I went to another city in Indonesia
for two months while he moved to another country. There, my boyfriend
did things that broke my heart. The worst was when I found out he had
cheated on me. For many days, I prayed and asked God for strength to
get out of the relationship. Finally, with a heavy heart, I decided to
break up with my boyfriend. Not too long after that, he found a new
girlfriend.

At first, it seemed impossible to go back to a normal life. I would
wake up every day with my heart racing, overwhelmed by fear and
anxiety. I lost my appetite and did not want to do anything. There was
no peace and no hope in life. On the one hand, it was difficult to
forgive my ex-boyfriend. On the other hand, I found myself recalling
our moments together, although I knew some of them were not right in
God’s sight. I was like the Israelites who, despite being delivered
from slavery in Egypt, compared their new life with their old days.
There was also a tussle in my heart: I wanted to pray, but every time
I sought to come to God, I heard a voice telling me that I did not
deserve to because I had hurt God with my disobedience.

Just as I was at my lowest point, my church encouraged us to allocate
time for prayer and fasting for one week every month, over a year. The
senior pastor encouraged every one of us to pray and fast, and to seek
strength from God alone.

So, for the first time in my life, I decided to fast and set aside
quality time with God. Previously, prayer was little more than a
religious routine. When I did so, I immediately started to see how God
had allowed these painful experiences to happen so that I could grow
spiritually. He had saved me from a future that would not please Him,
and was teaching me to love Him more than anything else and to
forgive. I thank God that He never abandons His children. Meanwhile,
Psalm 34:18, which says, “The LORD is close to the brokenhearted and
saves those who are crushed in spirit”, exposed the lie that had
stopped me from going back to God.

Month after month, I kept praying and fasting, and asking God for His
strength, peace, and comfort. One gloomy afternoon, while I was
praying, an indescribable joy came into my heart: I knew that while
everything would not become better overnight, God was slowly restoring
and renewing me. I knew that while everything would not become better
overnight, God was slowly restoring and renewing me.

Today, by the grace of God, I can say confidently that my identity is
no longer defined by any relationship I have. Having a boyfriend does
not make me a better or worse individual. My identity and my future is
defined only by God, the Creator and the owner of my life. And while I
occasionally feel doubt about my identity as a redeemed person, God’s
Word wards off the devil’s attacks. I am reminded that Jesus died to
redeem us from our sins so that we who believe in Him can have a new
identity as God’s children (John 1:12; 1 Peter 2:9).

I hope that you too will be encouraged by this truth.

