http://ymi.today/2017/04/a-family-crisis-that-redeemed-me/

A Family Crisis that Redeemed Me

Author: by Agnes Lee

Photo taken by Becky Roberts

Three years ago, I was involved in a family dispute. My willful,
unforgiving, and prideful character deeply hurt my family and it
reached a stage that I eventually left home.

During the worst of the crisis, I often asked “Why me?” or “Why is
life so unfair?” When I did not get any answers and finally realized
the problem was too big for me to solve, God did the most wonderful
thing in my life. He humbled me and began a period of sanctification
in my life. He taught me many truths, showed me that He was working in
the situation, and redeemed me through this crisis.



Living on my own was very lonely. I missed the good times when I would
return after work to a spacious home filled with people who loved me.
After I moved out, I was confined to a small room with only my own
company. My landlord was very kind and allowed me to use his living
room as my own, but it still did not feel like home, and so I confined
myself to my room most of the time. I sometimes even worked late to
avoid the loneliness. Outside office hours, I had a lot of time for
reflection. I shed many tears on my own, and those weak moments
ultimately drove me to God.

In those desperate times, I ransacked the Bible and found many of
God’s promises. In those desperate times, I ransacked the Bible and
found many of God’s promises. I memorized many verses that comforted
me, and I treasured them. God’s word kept me from sinking.

Through reading God’s word, I learned to process my emotions in a
healthy biblical manner. Becoming familiar with God’s word helped me
resist the temptation to hurt myself and others when overwhelmed by
emotion (Psalm 119:11). By hiding His word in my heart, I was not
destroyed by negative thoughts.

Though I was bitter against the people who in one way or another
triggered the crisis, God’s truth set me free from my hatred. God
assured me that all things happen for the good of those who love Him
and are called according to His purpose (Romans 8:28). I was chosen. I
was set apart. I felt God’s love and assurance.

As I read the word of God, I began to shape my thoughts according to
God’s truth. I slowly learned to exercise faith and to preach to
myself. During the crisis, the Bible that I had once found boring and
hard to understand became the book that held my greatest interest.



Faithful believers reminded me during those dark moments “to cling
onto God”. Fellowship with believers was very important during that
time, because they reminded me over and over again that I was not
alone. They reminded me that God was with me, and that God would work
things out.

Church leaders gave me tremendous emotional support and treated me as
family. The pastor and his wife reached out to counsel me when they
learned about my situation. They gave me the love that I was lacking.
They shared in my burden and made me feel better. The pastor’s wife
became my spiritual mentor. She taught me to pray about the situation
and ministered to me through bible study to deepen my faith. Whenever
I went to church, I no longer felt alone.

Members of the small family church I attended showed a lot of care and
concern for me. During the Christmas and New Year festive period, I
avoided my own relatives since I was not prepared to face their
questions as I was still hurting inside. I felt lonely since it was
the first time I had to spend festive season on my own. But the Pastor
and his family invited me to their home. It was a sweet and memorable
gesture. The support I received grew my faith and showed me how
important the body of Christ was and how faithful believers could aid
in my healing.



Just like how King Saul found relief from David playing the harp (1
Samuel 16:23), I was also lifted up by songs. I especially loved the
song “Be Still and Know”, which reminded me to be still, and became a
comfort to me during those times. I began to appreciate worship songs,
and learned to lift my hands in praise to the Lord even while going
through difficult times.

The songs I listened to also taught me to give thanks, and reminded me
the importance of thankfulness in all circumstances. Burdens become
strangely lighter when we enter God’s sanctuary with thanksgiving in
our hearts.



Through this crisis, I learned to read the Bible and find comfort in
the word of God. I learned that being in fellowship with other
faithful believers helped me stay strong in the faith. I learned the
importance of worship in all situations.

By the strength of God, I found healing and courage to approach those
who had in one way or another caused me hurt. Just like me, they had
emotions and needed love and acceptance too. During one of my
devotions, God showed me 1 John 4:18 and assured me that perfect love
drives out fear, the one who fears is not made perfect in love. Hadn’t
God showed me His love in the darkest night? Wasn’t it His love that
sustained throughout this time? What did I have to fear? Even if I
were to get hurt again, my God would be with me. As I pondered this
verse, my fear of getting hurt again seemed irrational. My heart
softened and I was finally able to let down my guard to draw near to
people who had hurt me in the past to seek reconciliation and show
forgiveness.

Today, I no longer feel the hurt that I once felt. I no longer feel
that bitterness that once consumed me. Although the house no longer
has room for me, I appreciate staying alone for now as it gives me
more freedom to seek God’s face. There will come a day when we will
stay under the same roof again in God’s perfect timing. For the time
being, I have learned to cherish the solitude.

Had it not been for Christ, I believe I would have slipped into
depression during the crisis. But what could have led me astray,
Christ used for good―that I come to know Him. In Philippians, Paul
says that nothing surpasses the worth of knowing Christ (Philippians
3:8).



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



