http://ymi.today/2015/09/aylans-silent-scream/

Aylan’s Silent Scream

Author: by Joanna Hor

It was a picture that painted a thousand words: a photograph of a
three-year-old Syrian boy, lying face down on a Turkish beach. His
name was Aylan Kurdi.

Last week, the world recoiled in horror and anguish over images of his
lifeless body washed up on a beach in Bodrum. He had drowned—along
with his five-year-old brother and 35-year-old mother—after their
flimsy rubber raft overturned in the choppy Mediterranean Sea as they
were making their perilous escape from Turkey to Greece on September
2. His father was the only family member who survived.

The heartbreaking images of the tiny human being personalized the
Syrian refugee crisis and highlighted a problem that had been building
up for years. The photographer from Turkey’s Dogan News Agency who
captured the pictures of Aylan said her blood “froze” when she saw him
lying on the beach, and the only thing she could do was to “make his
scream heard”.

Indeed, as many observed, Aylan’s death was not just an unfortunate
tragedy—it was also a reminder of the careless attitude, inaction, and
failure on the part of wealthier nations to help the millions of
refugees fleeing war-torn homelands in the Middle East and Africa and
hoping to find a new life elsewhere.

Some countries in the region came under fierce criticism for offering
little support—such as asylum spots—to the refugees. Some claimed the
influx of refugees would upset the racial and religious balance of
their local populations, while one church leader even reportedly said
that churches could not shelter refugees as they would then be
considered “human traffickers”.

But Aylan’s death appears to have turned hearts round. The images have
raised awareness of the state of affairs in Syria and galvanized
public support for refugees all over Europe. Britain, for example,
said that it would take in more Syrian refugees, while Pope Francis
implored Catholic institutions across Europe to offer shelter to them.
Online, concern for the Syrians has made the hashtag #refugeeswelcome
viral on Twitter.

The recent response to this heartrending humanitarian crisis has been
encouraging. It is also a strong reminder of the importance of
collective effort in helping to solve the problem—and of how the
church should be at the forefront of these efforts. It is also a
strong reminder of the importance of collective effort in helping to
solve the problem—and of how the church should be at the forefront of
these efforts. James 1:27 tells us: “Religion that God our Father
accepts as pure and faultless is this: to look after orphans and
widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by
the world.”

So, if you’re a Christian living in any one of the European countries
that have committed to taking in refugees, would you step forward and
render help in some way or another?

But what if you live tens of thousands of kilometres away from the
crisis—what can you do? Well, if this is the first time you’re hearing
about the crisis, would you take a few minutes to read up about what’s
happening? Perhaps you might be convicted to pray for peace in Syria,
for comfort for the people suffering, for perseverance of our fellow
believers undergoing persecution, and for strength for those laboring
to help those affected.

Or, perhaps you might be moved to find out what relief efforts are
being carried out near you, and to support the humanitarian work in
different ways, such as donating money, fundraising, volunteering at
events to raise awareness, etc.

Let not Aylan’s silent scream be in vain.

Syrian refugee crisis

Millions of people have been fleeing their homes because of civil war
in Syria and the rise of ISIS. The numbers—an estimated 12
million—have prompted some to describe the current refugee crisis as
the worst humanitarian disaster of our time.

The Syria civil war began in early 2011, after a violent government
crackdown sparked anti-government demonstrations. Half of the 12
million people displaced by the fighting are believed to be children.

Over the past few years, hundreds of thousands of refugees have
attempted to cross the Mediterranean Sea—the perilous journey—from the
Middle East to the west, in hopes of starting a new life in Europe.

Photo Credit: ABC News reporter Muhammad Lila / Source



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



