http://ymi.today/2015/06/i-am-loved-by-the-one-i-despised/

I am Loved by the One I Despised

Author: by Contributor

Written By Edwin B. Yambot, Philippines

Growing up in a poverty-stricken and hostile environment, I was
ashamed of my life. And though my grandmother was a devout Methodist,
my negative perception about the world impeded my growth in the
Christian faith and contributed to my cynicism about God.

After graduating with a degree in Social Sciences, I went into
teaching. My ego grew, and so did my skepticism. I remember asking my
students: “Where is this unseen God?” and “If there is a God, why does
evil exists?” I boldly declared that God is dead and that morality is
humanly conceived. It is based on our understanding of good and bad
and is relative to cultures. In my spiritual blindness, I was unable
to see that good deeds spring from the hearts of true Christians who
follow God, just as Ephesians 5:1-2 states, “Follow God’s
example, therefore, as dearly loved children  and walk in the way of
love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant
offering and sacrifice to God.”

After a decade of speaking against Christ, I found myself without
drive or purpose and asking questions like, “Why am I here?” and “What
am I living for?” All along, I thought I was intelligent enough to
rely on my own. While my sister would tell me to consult God about my
decisions, my usual reply to her was, “God has many problems. I don’t
have to make Him carry mine too.”

But when I didn’t acknowledge God, I suffered failure after failure. I
lost a job, got into frequent rifts with friends and experienced
humiliation. The egotistic I had fallen. I wondered whether this was a
display of God’s wrath in my life but decided to cling to Christ’s
message that He came to save the world and not to condemn it. I
finally turned to the One I had been mocking, the One I had despised
the most.

God is love. If we ask Him for forgiveness, He will generously blot
out all our iniquities and transgressions. God is glad when He sees us
coming back to Him as we read in Luke 15:23-24, “Let’s have a feast
and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he
was lost and is found.”

This forgiveness is made possible because of His Son, Jesus Christ.
Though He was the incarnate God (and therefore susceptible to worldly
temptations), He led a sinless life. Although He suffered and died in
humiliation, He did not question the wisdom of the Father as to why He
had to experience pain, suffering, and humiliation to save us from our
sins.

His death on the cross paid the penalty of our sins so we no longer
need to face God’s judgment, but receive His forgiveness instead.

As I look back on my life, I’ve realized it was very foolish of me to
mock God. As I look back on my life, I’ve realized it was very foolish
of me to mock God. I should have heeded Apostle James’ advice, “If any
of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all
without finding fault, and it will be given to you” (James 1:5).

Photo Contributed by Ian Tan

