http://ymi.today/2017/01/5-ways-to-renew-your-prayer-life/

5 Ways to Renew Your Prayer Life

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jason Van Dyk, Canada

Jason Van Dyk is an artist and designer. Together with his wife,
Laura, they decided to create artwork focused on and inspired by God’s
word, which they called “God’s fingerprints”. When Jason is not
working on “God’s fingerprints”, he works at a homeless shelter, doing
ministry with men recovering from drug and alcohol addiction.



Prayer is an essential part of a healthy walk with God. For many
Christians, though, this is an area of struggle. We know prayer is
important, but we find it difficult to establish it as a regular habit
in our life. But it doesn’t have to be this way.

Here are five different ways to help renew your prayer life.

The habit of morning prayer walks has revitalized my prayer life more
than anything else. As an active and creative person, walking as I
pray helps get the prayers flowing. If you’re having trouble praying
in one place, prayer walks may be something worth looking into.

Prayer walks can be done anytime and anywhere, but there is something
very special about the early morning. This is the way Jesus did it
(Mark 1:35). Most of the world is still asleep before the sun rises.
The quiet and tranquility of this time is ideal for communion with
God, as distractions are at a minimum.

To get started with prayer walks, all you need to do is step out the
door! I find it helpful to imagine Jesus—a loving friend with a heart
to listen—walking next to me. Making it one of the first things you do
each day will really help establish the habit and bring new life into
your relationship with God.



The act of writing our prayers can help us find words when it’s hard
to speak. This is a practice that my wife, Laura, does daily, and I’ve
seen how she’s been blessed by it. Sometimes she types out her
prayers, but mostly she writes them in a special prayer journal.

To get started, find yourself a journal (or any piece of paper), and
pour out your heart on the page. Write to God as your loving Father
and friend. Share your dreams, your hopes and your fears, and pray for
those that He puts on your heart. You can also use this time to write
down Bible verses that speak to you. Allow yourself to be creative and
create art around certain prayer requests or Scriptures. Write freely
and creatively, allowing the Spirit to lead you.



“It sounds like we gotta pray. The only time I can do every day is
4:30am. Are you down?” These were the words of my good friend Zoe when
he found out I was going through a challenging season. He committed to
praying with me every single day at 4:30am for a month. I thought he
was joking, but he was dead serious. Words cannot describe what these
early morning prayer times did for my faith.

Finding somebody to pray with on a regular basis is a great way to
recharge our prayer life. It may not be possible to always find a
willing partner, but you’d be surprised how many people are up for
regular prayer if you step out and ask.

We’ve scaled back quite a bit, but I still pray regularly with Zoe. We
live thousands of miles away now, but we still pray on the phone
together every Tuesday. It’s an anchor in my week that keeps me in a
healthy rhythm of prayer.

In his book Reaching for the Invisible God, American Christian author
Philip Yancey describes a season when he found it very difficult to
pray. He felt a spiritual darkness and an absence of God in his life.
In desperation, he got a collection of prayers and simply read the
prayers each morning. “I have no words of my own,” He told God.
“Please accept these prayers of others as the only ones I can offer
right now. Accept their words in place of my own.”

Later, Yancey came to see this time of spiritual darkness as an
important season of spiritual growth. His commitment to keep praying,
even when the words weren’t his own, helped forge his faith. There are
many books of collected prayers available. If you’re really struggling
to find words to pray, this may be a good option to consider.



One of the simplest prayers you can ever pray is “thank you”. If you
are finding it difficult to pray, starting a thank-you list is a
simple way to get back in the posture of prayer. As you write, thank
God for each item on the list. Sometimes the simplest prayers can be
the most profound.

Keeping prayers simple can really help in renewing our prayer life.
And prayers of thanksgiving will develop gratitude in our hearts.

Start small, and thank God for all He has done in your life. Thank him
for the little things, the beautiful things, and even the challenges
that helped you grow.



As you seek to renew your prayer life, remember to be patient.
Establishing the habit of prayer is like building a relationship, and
it takes time. Remember that God eagerly desires to hear from His
children, and that through Christ, we have direct access to God’s
throne of grace (Hebrews 4:16).

Finding a regular time to pray will help establish the habit. Commit
to a week, and see how things go. Once the habit is formed, it’s much
easier to keep going. May the words of the David encourage your heart
as you embark on this journey: “Wait on the LORD; be strong, take
heart; and wait on the LORD.” (Psalm 27:14)



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

