http://ymi.today/2015/07/how-taking-up-the-cross-became-a-daily-
affair/

How Taking Up the Cross Became A Daily Affair

Author: by Amy Ji

Eons ago, my would-be-mentor gave me a little card when she first
invited me to join my church’s youth ministry leadership team. I do
not recall what she wrote, but the quote on the card remains etched in
my memory, some fifteen years on. It said, “Whoever wants to be my
disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross daily and follow
me.” (Luke 9:23)

Reading Jesus’ words made me want to drop out of leadership even
before I had begun. The stakes were too high, I remember thinking to
myself. As if denying myself were not enough, I had to take up my
cross—and follow only Jesus.

As a young person, I had a problem with praise—I craved it. I did
things, said things, and behaved in ways wanting to be praised for
doing so. Each successful attempt led to a greater obsession with
people’s praises. Denying myself of this praise was the last thing on
my mind.

Also, the thought of having to place His plans and His way before the
things I enjoyed, such as movies, sports, and the like, was a tough
pill to swallow.

On top of all that, I was a very competitive youth. Friends were
getting boyfriends, and so I went and got myself one. Schoolmates were
really good at sports, so I trained hard as well. Close friends told
me that speaking rudely to my parents was cool, and that staying out
late after school was the way to go—so I followed their example.
Following Jesus meant not trying to keep up with my “cool” friends,
and living life His way instead.

Although joining the leadership team meant giving up so many things I
loved and enjoyed, I was too proud to back out after giving them my
word. So I gritted my teeth and dived into it.

Fifteen years on, I’ve served in the youth ministry, the church
worship team, missions board meetings, intercessory group—the list
goes on. Not once have I regretted serving God’s people or watching
His young people fall in love with the Word and lead others to Christ.
In fact, the only things I’ve regretted were moments of self-
centeredness: when I turned down an invitation to join a missions trip
because I wanted to go on a holiday with my friends, and when I had
someone else lead my cell group because I wanted to focus on my
studies.

Certainly, there have been times of exhaustion and stress, but not one
day has gone by without the joy of the Lord being my strength. I’ve
found that self-denial becomes easy when you are constantly praying
for other people. Taking up your cross daily becomes easier when you
begin each morning hearing His call through His word. Taking up your
cross daily becomes easier when you begin each morning hearing His
call through His word.

Following Him then becomes the only logical path to take.





Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



