http://ymi.today/2017/01/how-god-taught-me-to-give/

How God Taught Me to Give

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ching, Singapore

I am surrounded by giving people. Their tireless generosity is
inspiring to me, and I want to emulate their giving spirit.

My mum and her siblings are some of the people who have showed me what
it looks like to give often and consistently―they exchange gifts
almost on a weekly basis! They remind me of Romans 12:10, which
teaches us to love our spiritual siblings affectionately and to “outdo
one another in showing honor”.

I also have friends who painstakingly craft handiworks with love,
spending much time and effort in doing so. I know others who buy gifts
consistently and make it a discipline to give often. There are also
people working in the social sector who give so much that it hurts,
even though they are sometimes repaid with scorn and complaints
instead of gratitude.

I have also met churches, led to be generous by their leaders, that
often give and bless their fellow church members and the immediate
community that they love, serve, and reach out to. The beauty of
generosity on a broader scale is magnificent. I have peers in Thailand
that have shown me what hospitality looks like by receiving me with
sacrificial love. I have mentors who have modeled for me long-term
generosity over decades, and I have seen their long-suffering.

Yet despite having so many examples of generosity in my life, I have
still found it difficult to live out this generous lifestyle. I learn
all I want, but still end up never doing anything, nor wanting to. I
wasn’t much of a giver; I was more of a taker.

In 2014, I decided to experiment with giving often.

Throughout that year, I found myself wavering between extremes. There
were days when I did not want to give at all, and I became self-
indulgent and “gave” to myself. Other times I gave out of selfish
motives. What began as an experiment to try being more generous,
revealed how selfish I was. I began to realize that generosity was not
a natural human instinct. Without the help of the Holy Spirit, we are
simply not able to give freely. Through my selfishness, I saw how
truly our hearts need Christ.

As I began to comprehend the amazing grace Christ gave us―even dying
on the cross for us―I began to understand that we are called to be a
part of His mission and, as His representatives here on earth, to
exhibit His generosity. Generosity comes only from the Holy Spirit’s
work within us, Christ’s life in us, and the love of God our Father
overflowing in our lives. In short, generosity is a work of God in our
lives.

In 2014, I slowly learned to be more generous. God helped me learn
lessons from people around me. He also gave me a workplace with a very
generous culture.

I began giving random presents to colleagues and friends. Then I
started intentionally treating friends on their birthdays. Then I was
modeling generosity, week in and week out, for those I shepherd. Soon
I realized that my generosity needed a more intentional effort, and
that planning was required.

I began budgeting. The principle of “Give, Save, Spend” helped me
become more intentional in generosity. From small, spontaneous
trinket-gifts, I moved on to slowly saving up and giving consistently
so that others can be blessed over a longer period of time. A group of
friends and I combined our resources so that we could help fund the
school fees of one of our friends who was studying to go into full-
time ministry.

Generosity has become a part of my lifestyle. I was giving
consistently and intentionally. But I also realized that sometimes we
give without love. But I also realized that sometimes we give without
love.

In 1 Corinthians 13:3, Paul says “If I give all I possess to the poor
and give over my body to hardship that I may boast, but do not have
love, I gain nothing.” Even if we give away everything, but do it not
out of Christ’s love, we gain nothing.

Nothing.

Serving in the helping profession, there have been moments where I
failed to show empathy and genuine concern for the people I had been
tasked to care for. Instead of giving out of love, I found myself
giving because I wanted to be validated, which ultimately led to
disappointment and guilt.

Our generosity needs to be an overflowing of Christ’s love for us, and
also an intentional message about our Father’s love.

You might be thinking, “But I am no Mother Teresa,” “I am not rich,”
or “I am not some noble helper”. But the people who have inspired me
by their life of generosity were from all walks of life, from the very
poor to the very rich. Being generous is a consistent intentional
lifestyle.

A beggar I’ve met in a subway station once shared with me how every
day of the week, a different Christian will befriend him or cook him
dinner or speak to him. He also told me how some of them have even
become his friends, and visit him as often as they can.

Christian generosity must be different from what everyone else does.
We have the message of a very rich King who emptied himself and became
poor, died, and rose again, so that we can be adopted into His family.

Get to know your daddy God intimately. Knowing our identity as a child
of God, we can then reflect our Father’s generosity to all.

