http://ymi.today/2017/09/my-netflix-had-no-chill/

My Netflix Had No Chill

Author: by Contributor

Written By Tiffany Rogers, USA

Let me tell you a story: A young woman comes home after a long day.
She sets her things down, throws her hair up, and changes into comfy
clothes in record time. Breathing a deep sigh of relief, she grabs her
laptop and flips it open. The screen illuminates, showing the last
webpage she visited: Netflix.

The familiar words appear on the screen: Playback Timed Out. Her
muscle memory kicks in and she hits “refresh” as the episode she fell
asleep on continues, right where she left off.

This is how she spends her evening. Maybe she eats, maybe she showers,
and maybe she talks to some people. But at any given moment, and
especially in bed getting ready to fall asleep, she is watching
Netflix.

The end.

Now, let me tell you a secret: For months, that girl was me.

Don’t get me wrong; I had a social life, I had friends, and I even had
a boyfriend. But when people asked what my “hobbies” were, I had to
lie by deflection. I said things like, “Oh, I enjoy reading. I write
sometimes. I love the outdoors!” Because I certainly couldn’t tell
them, “I literally spend all of my free time watching The Office on
Netflix.”

Here’s the thing: Netflix was my escape from life, from stress, from
feelings, and from people. I used the shows I watched on Netflix to
keep fear and depression at bay. If I was watching Netflix, nothing
could hurt me.

I know that sounds extreme because it was extreme. Netflix was my
therapy, my shield, and my safety. I couldn’t even go in the kitchen
to make food without bringing Netflix with me to play in the
background while I cooked.

That was my reality. But it wasn’t that I was a lazy bum without
anything better to do. It was that at the root of my incessant Netflix
binge, something was terribly wrong. Something was awry in my heart,
and it caused fear and depression to hover over me like an
individualized dark rain cloud, and Netflix was my perpetual umbrella.

Then, something happened. The relationship I was in was crumbling. I
had known for a long time it wasn’t right, and I suddenly found myself
at a place where everything I held dearest was slipping through my
fingers: my future, my plans, my pride and my love.

That breakup was how the Lord got ahold of me. For a long time I knew
I needed to turn back to Him and finally listen to His voice. He had
been whispering into my soul, like a parent whispers too closely in a
child’s ear when chastising at a dinner table, and the whisper makes
them flinch and squirm because it tickles, but not in a funny way. I
couldn’t ignore it anymore.

“My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest His
correction; for whom the Lord loves, He corrects, just as a father the
son in whom he delights.” (Proverbs 3:11-12)

In my life, I had stopped seeking God. I chased feelings and
intuitions instead of prayerfully asking the Lord for guidance and
peace. I listened to my own overly emotional and foolish heart over
listening to the wisdom and discernment of the Holy Spirit. In no
uncertain terms, I was running. I had found what I thought I wanted,
and I didn’t want to hear what God had to say, for fear it would
contradict my desires.

And on the surface of it all, I Netflixed the days away. While my
heart was wasting in torture and turmoil, I naively believed the
longer I watched Netflix, the longer I could put off the change I knew
needed to happen.

As a result, I gladly gave Him the attention I once rendered to
Netflix and all my social media platforms. I found a year-long Bible
reading plan and started reading the Bible as well as embarking on
some devotionals. I also dove into Christian books by authors like
Gary Thomas, John Bevere and Timothy Keller, among others. I used that
time instead to seek Him diligently. My desire became to know Him
intimately and to grow my love for Him unlike ever before. Now, I can
humbly say that God is my greatest love, and my desire is for Him.

Maybe for you it’s not Netflix. Maybe it’s Facebook, Instagram, or
Twitter. Maybe your job is your shield, or your spouse is your escape.
Maybe a hobby, an addiction or a toxic relationship is causing your
growing separation from the Lord. In any case, I want to challenge you
to look inside your heart. Ask yourself honestly if you’re running to
anything before running to God for guidance, safety, and peace. Is
anything besides Jesus taking the first place in your heart?

If so, be encouraged. Just as you are sick of running and hiding
behind something or someone, Jesus is just as eager and ready to
receive you with open arms. Matthew 7:7 tells us: “Ask, and it will be
given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be
opened to you.” It is a breath of fresh air knowing that as we seek
Him, we find Him. He doesn’t hide Himself from us, rather, He pulls us
out of our deep ruts (which we often create ourselves), and places us
right next to Him with nothing but love in His heart and tenderness in
His eyes.

Are you ready to make a change? Here’s a prayer you can follow:

Lord, forgive me for placing other things or people on the throne of
my heart. I surrender to You, and my desire is for You to be my
greatest love. Give me courage to remove whatever is taking up my
affection, that I may replace it with my earnest love for You. Teach
me to love You more than ever before. I want to know You, God. Reveal
yourself to me through your Holy Spirit, that I might grow in
closeness with You, my Heavenly Father. In Jesus’ name, Amen.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog  here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

