http://ymi.today/2017/06/confessions-of-an-unexpected-pageant-king/

Confessions of an Unexpected Pageant King

Author: by Contributor

Written by Benjamin Wong, Singapore

I’m a natural introvert. I shy away from large groups, avoid
opportunities to stand out, and feel my energy drain very quickly
whenever attention is lavished on me. I struggle to look people in the
eye when conversing, stammer when I’m undecided, and speak very
quickly when I get nervous. I am far from being charismatic, much less
popular.

On 28 August last year, however, I was crowned the pageant king of my
cohort—otherwise known as Medicine King 2016.

Just to put things in perspective, the medicine faculty, where I am
studying now, runs its pageant differently from other faculties at my
university. For one, the competition is a lot less stiff. The 20
contestants (10 couples) alone made up six percent of our entire
batch. Also, all we had to do was a simple photo-shoot, a dance
performance, and a fun, X-Men themed catwalk. I’ve heard that other
pageants include clothes-fitting sessions and professional photo-
shoots.

Still, the win came as an absolute surprise. I’m pretty sure none of
the events leading up to the voting earned me that coveted sash, so
the entire journey reminded me of who really was in control. I’m
pretty sure none of the events leading up to the voting earned me that
coveted sash, so the entire journey reminded me of who really was in
control.

In fact, I didn’t even volunteer to join the pageant. None of the
three male nominees in my house (also known as orientation group)
wanted to run for the pageant, so we were all made to rate our
interest level on a scale of 1 to 10. I was chosen simply because I
gave the highest number (which I no longer remember).

From learning a dance meant to surprise and elicit laughter from the
audience, to thinking of creative ways to dress up as the X-Men
Quicksilver, I must admit that I found the experience to be quite fun
at first.

But after a while, I became painfully aware that taking part in a
pageant wasn’t my cup of tea. Socializing with the in-crowd, posing
for cool photos, and garnering votes on social media were way out of
my comfort zone. I continued nevertheless.

And so, I went through pageant like everyone else. Often, reservations
about my looks and popularity crept into my mind. I really did not
want to come in last, so I texted and bugged my friends to like my
Facebook photos. This fear soon became the driving force of all my
thoughts and actions—till the final day of judging arrived.

On stage with two other finalists, I was posed a series of questions
in front of almost our entire cohort.

“If you were an animal, what would you be?” I was asked.

“Umm . . . a colt,” I replied, after a long pause.

My brain rummaged through the recesses of my mind in desperate search
for an explanation. In that split second, I contemplated changing my
answer to escape further awkwardness. But I immediately remembered my
resolution to be unashamed of my faith.

You see, in the months leading up to my matriculation, I had been
volunteering at a para-church organization, where I learned—among
other things—about the person of Jesus through Bible Studies. During
that time, I had come to appreciate how much everyone needed the
gospel and therefore, how important evangelism was. Looking back on
how hesitant I was to broach the topic of religion with my friends in
my previous schools, I was determined to be vocal about my identity as
a believer and to unashamedly grab opportunities to present Jesus to
my friends in university.

I resolved to use this opportunity to present Jesus to everyone
around, although I knew that the very words I would soon utter would
be a straight ticket out of the competition: “Because Jesus rode a
baby donkey into Jerusalem 2,000 years ago.”

It was an awkward and clumsy reply, and the emcees didn’t respond to
my reply. The next moment, I was off the stage and waiting for the
results.

Once again, my head was flooded with a stream of thoughts. On the one
hand, I was overwhelmed with relief for coming so far. On the other
hand, I felt my response didn’t do justice to Jesus’ significance in
my life. My sense of guilt was compounded by the realization that I
hadn’t even touched on just how important Jesus was in my life.

The next moment saw the emcees announcing my name and me presented
with the purple sash. I couldn’t help but laugh in disbelief. “Is this
my reward for being brave for You?” I kept wondering through the
night.

Since then, I’ve taken the prize as an affirmation that God was
pleased with my resolve to talk about Jesus’ lordship in my life. It’s
also given me the opportunity to share the gospel with two friends and
talk about Jesus boldly at interviews.

As I look back on my experience, I must admit I did not get off to a
great start. Distracted by what others thought of me, I had lost focus
on my true worth in Jesus. Thank God for waking me up and using an
easily distracted soul like mine in a setting that glamourizes worldly
values. As I think about how God used me—someone who’s not pageant-
material to win the competition—I can’t help but be reminded of 1
Corinthians 1:27-31 (even though I know the context is completely
different):

“but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise,
and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things
which are strong, and the base things of the world and the despised
God has chosen, the things that are not, so that He may nullify the
things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by His doing
you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and
righteousness and sanctification, and redemption, so that, just as it
is written, “Let him who boasts, boast in the Lord.” (1 Corinthians
1:27-31, NASB)

My experience has given me a personal taste of the truth and beauty
behind these words. All glory belongs to God because He alone bestows
triumph, and Jesus alone is who we need to boast in!

If you’re thinking of joining a pageant, here’s my advice: Join it
with your eyes open. It’s okay to enter for the fun and the
experience, but do be aware that your sense of worth will be
challenged—the way people critique and compare you can be detrimental
if you’re not secure in your identity in Christ.

For me, I will forever remember those few moments on stage right after
the emcees announced the title winner. I will never forget just how
important it is to share the gospel, and how much greater the reward
in heaven is for those who share about Jesus!



