http://ymi.today/2017/02/to-the-man-who-takes-my-place/

To the Man Who Takes My Place

Author: by Contributor

Written By Rachelle Windham, USA

I knew from the moment my question went unanswered. Up until that
point, what I had to say always got her rapt attention above anybody
else’s (you know, besides Jesus).  For the past nine years, we’ve been
inseparable. Nothing earthly knows her better than I do, but I’m
starting to realize that this won’t always be the case.

And so, my words hung in the air as she caught your gaze from across
the room and everything, including myself, faded into the background.
I won’t lie—it stung in that moment, but can I blame her? You’ve been
the perfect combination of Cary Grant and Walt Disney. I mean, your
chivalry will make her forget how to open a car door, and your
creative date-planning skills would turn the heart of the worst man-
hater to mush!

Accepting Change

When a best friend dates and begins to date seriously, it’s natural
for things to shift. Change is part of life, and she and I have prayed
for this particular change throughout most of our friendship. Now that
those prayers have been answered, my moment of possessiveness sounds
ironic. That emotion was fleeting. But in all honesty, it will likely
return. You know what a catch she is, and can at least somewhat
understand how difficult it might be to surrender some parts of our
sisterhood to make room for an outsider.

Even though I can’t compete with hammocks under the stars and fancy
dinner date nights, I think I’m still MVP*, at least for now. It’s a
role I don’t take lightly. It’s a role that you shouldn’t take
lightly, either. Here’s why: we are sisters. If I saw any red flags,
she would consider them. If I had any reservations, I would have her
full attention. Well, so far, no concerns have surfaced. In fact, I’m
convinced that besides the work of Jesus in her heart, you might be
the best thing to ever happen to her.

You seem to have figured out her quirks and broken down walls in
record timing. The giggles and laughter that ensue whenever you call
echo through our apartment. Sometimes, after coming home from a great
date the night before, she’ll actually wake up cheerful—and she’s by
no means a morning person. There’s a new level of exuberance in her
countenance, and I can’t help but notice that the transformation began
right around the time that the two of you started talking.

Most important among your merits is that you claim to know Jesus. And
the fruit of that claim seems to be evident in how you love and serve
others, even complete strangers. But a bestie needs more assurance
than that. A bestie needs to know that her sister will be well taken
care of, should you one day ask a question that will dress her in
white. I’ve narrowed it down to the three things that I want you to
have in order before you get down on one knee.

The Requirements

First of all, I need you to be fearful of loving her too much. That
sentiment might fly in the face of everything our culture tells us
about love, but let me explain. She might make a great girlfriend. She
is, without a doubt, wife material. If God blesses her with children,
she’ll be a fantastic mother. The one role she’d be terrible at is
taking the place of God in your life. She’s a wonderful human being,
but her flawed humanity is unable to carry the weight of your cosmic
expectations. So don’t ask her to. Fight hard to love Jesus more, and
tremble at the thought of anything less so that my dear friend can be
appropriately treasured, not idolized.

Secondly, cultivate godly male friendships. Allow older men in the
church to speak into your life. Trials will come. Temptation will
knock. And if you don’t have flesh and blood safeguards who can offer
counsel or a straight-up kick in the shin when needed, you risk
steering your family off the narrow path and my friend into heartache.

Last but certainly not least, you need to understand that one day, you
will find yourself in a similar position to the one I’m in—you will
find your role partially diminished and taken over by a more capable
man. I don’t mean to be morbid, but should you change my friend’s last
name, death will eventually do you part. On that day, you will cease
to be her husband and she will cease to be your wife. She will take on
her permanent place among the rest of us who are eventually called to
our eternal home with Jesus. You need to realize this now because she
is only on loan to any of us.

How will this point make a difference? This mindset will aid you in
points one and two. If you understand that she isn’t yours forever,
Jesus will keep His rightful place in both of your lives. If you
understand that you will be surrendering her fully to Christ one day,
you’ll step up your game in caring for her spiritually while she is
yours. You’ll include those safeguards to make sure you don’t fail
your Savior.

Passing the Baton

I honestly couldn’t care less about how big a house she sleeps in or
how financially stable your budget is. Life gets tough, marriage is no
piece of cake, and there’s too much Kingdom work to bother with
building too many earthly accomplishments. So before you pledge your
earthly life to serving my friend and take my place as her closest
companion, I need to know that her beautiful soul will be well cared
for in the days to come. I will accept nothing less because I love her
that much.





Sincerely,

MVP



*Most Valuable Player

The article was first published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

