http://ymi.today/2017/09/when-pride-lingers-after-an-accident/

When Pride Lingers After An Accident

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jeff Huxford, USA

There’s nothing innately wrong with being proud of something or
someone. Pride can be a good thing. But we have to be careful with it
because it can become very dangerous when it’s misplaced.

Well, I had been living dangerously and I didn’t even know it. I was
placing pride in myself above anything else. On May 3, 2012, my self-
pride took a big “hit,” and I mean that literally.

I was driving home after running a few errands in town when another
driver ran a flashing red light, hitting my truck and pushing it into
a concrete utility pole. My head then went through the driver’s side
window and struck the pole, causing a severe traumatic brain injury
(TBI).

Though my life was spared, as a result of my TBI, I did “lose” much of
what had made me me. So you would think my problem with self-pride
would have been “lost“ as well. It would be a thing of the past, taken
care of once and for all. But it wasn’t. My self-pride may have been
curbed somewhat but it never left completely. It would exit for awhile
but never stay gone. It was always finding its way back. It wasn’t
that long ago when my pride issue was starting to make one of its ugly
returns. And the scary thing is I didn’t even know it was happening

During my most recent bout, I was focused on getting as many people as
possible to hear the miraculous story God has written and is still
writing for my life. I was spending a lot of my time and energy
“promoting” myself on social media and other platforms. I was telling
others about who I was, my story, my upcoming book, my speaking, and
so on. I was becoming over-focused on myself.

As all of this self-absorption was taking place, I heard a very timely
sermon where my pastor was teaching from the book of Ecclesiastes.
That day, he focused on one particular verse: “Do not be
overrighteous, neither be overwise—why destroy yourself?”
(Ecclesiastes 7:16)

I believe this warning also applies to self-pride and self-absorption,
etc—the very attributes I was displaying.

I knew God was speaking directly to me. It wasn’t something I should
take lightly, because it had the ability to destroy me. I was very
grateful to be made aware of this, but now what? How was I supposed to
combat overrighteousness and, thus, avoid being “destroyed”?

As I was sitting there pondering this question, our pastor led us to
the New Testament and the book of Matthew. “But seek first his kingdom
and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as
well.” (Matthew 6:33)

Now that was a very familiar verse to me. I had heard it many times
before. But, as our pastor pointed out to us that day, there is a word
tucked away within it that we tend to gloss over and overlook. But
that single word was the answer to the question I was just asking
myself. This one word, when taken to heart, gives us the ability to
avoid being destroyed by our overrighteousness. This very powerful
word is: His.

You see, our righteousness isn’t ours. It’s His. It belongs to Jesus.
Every little bit of it. You see, our righteousness isn’t ours. It’s
His. It belongs to Jesus. Every little bit of it. We haven’t anything
to do with it. The only reason we can be called righteous is because
of what Jesus has done for us. So anytime I start thinking too highly
of myself or believing that I am in any way responsible for my
righteousness, I need to remember the One who truly is.

Moving forward from here, I know I will need to promote my story, my
upcoming book, my speaking, etc. I understand this is necessary if I
want to people to hear the story God has written and is still writing
in my life.  But when doing so, I have to remember that none of what I
am claiming ownership over is actually mine. Not one bit of it.
Because just like my righteousness, it all belongs to Jesus.

