http://ymi.today/2016/03/whats-in-the-dark/

What’s in the Dark?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joshpril B, Philippines

Ghosts, bogeymen, monsters, and other scary creatures were all part of
my childhood (and perhaps yours too!). Somehow, it was embedded in my
mind that in the dark, something scary would be lurking around the
corner.

Perhaps it was the result of horror films I watched, ghost-sighting
stories that I heard, or the Goosebumps books I read. My imagination
ran wild whenever I was in darkness; not being able to see what was
going on distorted my reality and stopped me from thinking rationally.

After coming to know Christ at a young age, however, I stopped
thinking that way. While I was still aware that there were evil
spirits around us, I knew that Jesus was more powerful than they were.
There were still times when my default response to darkness was fear,
but overall, knowing that Jesus was with me always gave me assurance
and comfort.

Until recently.

Several years ago, I moved out from my family home to a place where
the crime rate was high. I was told to double the number of locks on
my front door and have strong, metal grilles built across my windows.
I was also warned to avoid strangers, not to linger in public places,
and never to leave home alone.

Thanks to all these warnings, I became scared of the dark again. I
kept imagining that someone was lurking in the dark, ready to hurt,
rob, harass, or kidnap me. All sorts of scenarios came to mind, and
though nothing actually happened to me, it came to a point where I
would lie awake the whole night, paranoid. Every single noise I heard
would make my imagination run wild, and I would start wondering if
someone was watching my every move. I began to place more trust in the
security of my double-locked door instead of the Lord.

Sure, I knew in my mind that Jesus would protect me. But I just
couldn’t help letting my fear of the dark consume me.

Through my parents, however, God reminded me about how David praised
Him in Psalm 28:7: “The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart
trusts in Him, and He helps me. My heart leaps for joy, and with my
song I praise Him.” As I read those words, I suddenly understood why
King David could place his trust in the Lord despite the opposition he
faced. Because he knew the Lord was his source of strength and
protection, he could speak with certainty and confidence. Despite his
own fear, he could even find the strength to praise God. God’s
greatness and power was his shield that protected him from danger—and
his own fear.

Now, whenever my fear of what’s in the dark starts to overcome me, I
keep repeating this verse to remind myself of its truth. The more I
pray and read His Word, the more courage I get. The more I pray and
read His Word, the more courage I get. I am more able to say with
confidence that the Lord is my strength and my shield, for He protects
my mind from wandering and letting my imagination go wild.

I am learning to place my trust in the Lord whenever I’m scared of
something or someone in the dark. The Bible reminds me that He’s there
to help me, and I’m truly thankful that I have found peace facing the
dark—for I know that the Lord is always there with me.

