http://ymi.today/2015/08/why-comparing-can-be-dangerous/

Why Comparing Can be Dangerous

Author: by Vania Tan

I won’t deny that I often compare myself with others, including family
members and friends. Such moments make me realize that there are so
many people out there who have talents and skills that far exceed my
own, and which I may never be able to attain, try as I might.

Comparison is not a bad thing, especially when it’s a way to inspire
ourselves towards self-improvement. But if we are not careful, it can
grow into an obsession that may eventually eat into our lives and
become detrimental to our confidence and sense of identity.

As a graphic designer, I find myself benchmarking my own work against
that of others and noticing a stark contrast (at least, that’s what I
think.) While some may say that art is subjective, I cannot help but
hold the view in my mind that I am just not up to mark. I tell myself
that “I am not good enough” or “I wish I could do that”. Up till
today, I still find it difficult to call myself an “artist”.

I’m not sure why I think this way; it could be due to a lack of
affirmation from others in the same industry.

This is where friends have been a great help. As we open up and share
our insecurities, we will begin to realize that all of us have
experienced the same thing at one point or another. We might even have
been envious of each other’s skills and talents. I’ve learned that we
should appreciate one another’s gifts and successes, and not compare
ourselves with others. The Bible says, “love does not envy” (1
Corinthians 13:4) and “rejoice with those who rejoice” (Romans 12:15).

God has also encouraged me through His Word. I have a friend who would
read her Bible whenever she feels down, which has inspired me to
search the scriptures. The Lord knows exactly what I need to hear and
has given me these words of assurance:

1. I made you. “For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in
them.”—Ephesians 2:10

2. I numbered the hairs on your head. “Indeed, the very hairs of your
head are all numbered. Don’t be afraid; you are worth more than many
sparrows.”—Luke 12:7

3. I’m working in you. “for it is God who works in you to will and to
act in order to fulfill his good purpose.”—Philippians 2:13

4. My grace is sufficient for you. “My grace is sufficient for you,
for my power is made perfect in weakness.”—2 Corinthians 12:9

These verses have convinced me that the Lord loves us and cares for us
deeply. They have also got me thinking about whether my identity is
rooted in others or in Christ, and whose opinion I should value.

So, will I continue to compare myself to others? Most certainly: it’s
hard to avoid doing so.

But can I get rid of the negative thoughts about myself that
inevitably enter my head? I will certainly try my best.

This journey of growing will take some time, but I know I’m not alone.
We are all in this together, so let’s help sharpen each other
(Proverbs 27:17) and strive to be rooted in Christ’s security and
identity, so that when others compare themselves to us, all they will
see is God at work.

It’s time we stop looking around, and start looking up instead.





Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



