http://ymi.today/2016/09/a-letter-to-all-first-year-students/

A Letter To All First-Year Students

Author: by Contributor

Written By Natalie Hanna Tan, Singapore

Hey there,

You made it! You’ve survived the plane, bus, or train ride and have
arrived at a new season of life. Welcome to university—your home for
the next three to four years!

You may be feeling apprehensive and excited at the same time. That’s
normal. Take your time to settle in. If you had set some objectives
before you came, that’s great. If not, here are five things to mull
over as you get into the swing of things.

You’ll be tempted to gravitate to what you’re comfortable with. You’ll
want to find friends exactly like your close friends back home—those
who share your interests, laugh with you, and understand you—before
you’re willing to open up. But unless you see new people as
individuals God has placed in your path and take the step to open up
to them, you’re going to find it difficult to make new friends.

Everyone is new and is meeting each other for the first time. You’ll
see new personalities and new habits, and you’ll find yourself growing
closer to friends quickly. That’s the beauty of this season—that’s if
you’re willing to let them into your life.

Don’t stick with what you’re comfortable with. Even as you maintain
old friendships, embrace new friends, and journey this season with
them.



Whether you’re a “morning person” or a “night person”, starting your
morning well is the first step to a productive day.

Cook a nice breakfast for yourself and make it a point to give
yourself some time alone before you begin your busy day. I’ve learned
that spending unhurried time reading the Bible and talking with God
helps set my mind on the right track for the rest of the day. And
let’s face it: you’d probably be too tired to do so at the end of the
day anyway.

Guard these morning moments with God zealously. You’d find that
committing your day and yourself to God is the key to get you through
university life (and the rest of life for that matter).



You’re going to struggle with homesickness, (for those who are
studying overseas or living in hostel), loneliness, and
disappointments. And you’re going to feel overwhelmed every once in a
while over the next few years. That’s perfectly okay; you don’t need
to appear like you’ve got it all together. Don’t be afraid to show
you’re vulnerable.

It’s okay to cry and admit that you’re struggling; everyone else is
probably feeling the same way too. But learn to find joy in the new
things this season will bring. Be assured that God is with you (it’s
in moments like these that you’ll realize how much you need God), and
find comfort in knowing that your community back home is praying
alongside you and your new community is here to support you.



It’s easy to get caught up with the hype about being a university
“freshie”. Soon, you’d find yourself up to your neck in social
activities. These things are great but know that it’s okay to say “no”
sometimes too.

On nights that your flat mates are heading out to party, don’t force
yourself to say “yes” just because you’re scared to miss out or feel
left out. You can always join them on other nights or bond with them
over other things, like cooking, for example.

If your close friends are going for a late movie and pizza night—and
you still have readings to do—learn to politely decline. You’d regret
the next day when you wake up with that horrible cold.

Manage your time well and remember to rest.



This first week is not going to be easy. You’re going to question if
this is where God wants you to be and you’re going to make mistakes.
Learning to live independently—and all that it entails—will not come
to you all at once. You’ll need to slowly figure your way around and
keep picking yourself up when you fall.

Press on and hold on tight to God in the mess and confusion. It might
be a steep learning curve, but God is going to grow you this year. It
is in your weakness and helplessness that His power is made strong in
you.



You’ll get there.



