http://ymi.today/2017/03/when-i-dont-agree-with-the-bible/

When I Don’t Agree with the Bible

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lim Chien Chong

Chien Chong joined Singapore Youth For Christ (SYFC) full-time in 1998
after a six-year teaching career in a local junior college. In 2005,
he became SYFC’s National Director. Since Jan 2021, he has taken the
role of the Teaching & Resource Director. He currently serves in the
pulpit, Bible class and children ministry in church, and also
preaches, trains, and teaches in different churches and youth groups
in Singapore. He has been married for 19 years and has two teenage
boys.

Recently, a Christian friend of mine shared that she was going through
a very rough patch in her life. Why would God, described in the Bible
as the God of love, allow her to go through all that? she asked. What
added to her disappointment was that God did not answer her prayers.
The God of the Bible didn’t seem to match up to her expectations.

Another Christian friend told me he was in a relationship with
someone; it was a relationship which the Bible clearly spoke against.
Both of them were truly in love with one another and the relationship
meant a lot to him. To him, God was unreasonable in the way He spelt
out His expectations in the Bible, especially in terms of whom
believers can have a close relationship with.

These are just two of the many others I know who struggle with what
the Bible says. For these two friends of mine, it is especially tough
because the disagreement is not just about a conflict of ideas; it
involves a clash of expectations, interests and lifestyles.

What do we do when we don’t agree with the Bible? To answer this
question for myself, I’ve learned to first review the basic
assumptions and convictions I have about myself and God respectively.



Assumption #1: My ideas and feelings cannot be wrong

Disagreements (of any sort) between individuals occur when both sides
are certain that they are right. I find it hard to accept things that
are different from what I have learned from young to be true. This is
especially so when I am very certain about my views and convicted
about how I feel.

Naturally, when there is a conflict between what the Bible says and
how I feel, what I think and what I want, my most instinctive reaction
is to say that the Bible cannot be right.

But if I am honest with myself, I will have to acknowledge that there
have been numerous occasions in my life that I have been proven wrong
in the way I look at things, the way I feel, and the way I respond.
The reality is I can be wrong—even though I may not like to admit it.

I remember the time when my application for medical school was
rejected. Unlike some of my friends who wanted to be doctors for
personal reasons, I really wanted to “save” lives. So I thought God
got it wrong. It has been a humbling journey since, but as I look back
on this time in my life, I realize God knew better. Many have affirmed
me in my role as a teacher. And as I teach the Word of God and share
the gospel of Christ, I am in fact “saving” lives for eternity. I
thank God that while I was wrong about myself then, God wasn’t wrong
about me.



Assumption #2: I know my Bible well enough

For those of us who have been Christians for many years, we would have
heard many sermons and done much reading and studying of the Bible for
ourselves. With all this head knowledge, we may come to understand God
and life in a certain way.

Inevitably, when God and life do not turn out the way we understand,
we struggle. But, if we read our Bible more carefully in its proper
contexts, we will realize that we have misread our Bibles and
misunderstood the character of God all along.

I used to think that God would answer every prayer I said if I ended
it in Jesus’ name. But that is not what John 16:24 meant at all. You
can imagine the numerous occasions when I felt disappointed with God
for not answering my prayers. But that was because I understood Him
wrongly. On hindsight, I realize He must have been the one who was
truly disappointed with me instead.



Assumption #3: God must act in a certain way

We expect our close friends to understand and accept us, and we hold
certain expectations about how they should act and respond. As such,
we become very disappointed when they don’t. So, if God doesn’t act in
a certain way according to our expectations, we believe that something
must be wrong with Him.

But we cannot look at God in the same way we look at our friends,
because He is not a mere human who has to pander to our desires and
expectations. He is the great God who rules with absolute authority
and wisdom. In Isaiah 40:12-26, we read of how the Israelites had to
grapple with some mind-blowing metaphors about the incomparable
greatness of God. The reality is, if we can “sort God out” and tell
Him what He should do, then He can’t really be God because He is under
our control.



Therefore, for myself, here are three foundational pillars that I
choose to stand on:

The most fundamental issue I must address is whether or not I accept
the fact that in spite of what I think and how I feel, God—who is
perfect in power, love and knowledge—defines what is right and wrong,
good and bad, true or false.

I can choose to be proud and stubborn because I think I know better
since I have read, seen and experienced a lot. Alternatively, I can be
humble and accept the reality that God, being the great God, does work
beyond my scheme of things.

When Job was tested, his wife and his friends offered many
“reasonable” explanations as to why he had to suffer many afflictions.
But God does not work or have to work within our scheme of things. In
the climactic end in Job 38:1-40:2, God reminded Job that He is the
great God; He knows how to run the universe He created and His wisdom
is greater than human wisdom.

I have found that on many occasions, my perception and judgment are
limited and biased. There is still much I do not know. In fact, I need
to learn, unlearn and sometimes even re-learn some things. Guess what?
My children are my teachers when it comes to this aspect. Their
seemingly innocent questions like, “How did this come about?”, “Why
must it be like that?” and “Why did you say this but do that?” often
show me that I don’t know as much and I’m not as loving, wise, patient
and fair as I like to think I am. It will be foolish to think that I
know better.



There are truths and issues I must accept simply because they are
clearly written in the Bible. At first glance, I may not understand or
agree with certain truths or instructions. But it does not change the
fact that God has written them in the Bible.

My response is not to un-write, erase or gloss over these things;
rather, I need to take time and effort to learn and understand them.
At times, I may need to simply accept these truths even if they don’t
make full sense to me. Maybe we don’t quite understand fully the
Trinity or the idea of predestination. Maybe we can’t answer the
question of why a good God allows sufferings. Maybe we cannot
comprehend why God didn’t answer our prayers. Nonetheless, we can hold
on to these questions and wait to see how God will help us work
through them along the way. When Habakkuk found God’s ways confusing
and sometimes mysterious, God’s answer to him was: “The righteous
shall live by faith” (Hab 2:4). So, wait for His deliverance.



Instead of focusing on the differences between what the Bible says and
what we see, why not take comfort and be encouraged by the many
instances of congruence between the Bible and the world? This should
not surprise us at all, since the same God who gave us the Word is
also the same God who made the world.

One good exercise is to constantly look for and marvel at examples of
how God’s character and truths are seen in the world we live in and in
the experiences we go through. For example, love, mercy and justice
(or for that matter, even choice and consequence) are not just
abstract concepts. These are important principles that are being
displayed and lived out in our lives and societies. They do
demonstrate in some ways (though imperfectly) how God interacts with
the world. But God will necessarily differ from and transcend human
applications of these principles because, unlike man, He is perfect in
all His ways.

So what do I do when I don’t agree with the Bible? I think I am ready
to answer the question now.



These ideas seem rather obvious, don’t they? Yet when we are faced
with real issues, they are harder to grasp than they appear. And that
is probably why my two friends struggled. While I’m glad that one of
my friends is learning to understand and accept that God has a much
better and bigger plan for her, my other friend has to now work
through extremely difficult issues in the relationship that God has
spoken against.  My prayer for him is that he can re-align himself
back to God in due time.

