http://ymi.today/2016/04/5-ways-to-deal-with-stress/

5 Ways To Deal With Stress

Author: by Contributor

Written By Hans Anthony, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

“Problems are a sign of life.” How true. As long as we’re alive,
problems are inevitable, aren’t they? The only time we no longer have
to face them is when we’re no longer alive.

The problem with problems is that they often shift our focus from
what’s important, and weary us in the process. Life becomes a mess. We
feel stuck. We get stressed. How do we get out? Based on my own
experience dealing with stress, here are five things I encourage you
to do.

Sounds clichéd? As Christians, we know that prayer is a channel for us
to communicate with God. When problems set in and stress hits, we are
reminded to pray and ask God for His help. But do we actually practise
this in reality? More often than not, we try to find our own way out,
or look to others to solve our problems.

I remember a stressful situation I faced in 2012. My company had to
pay around 100 million Indonesian Rupiah because I miscalculated the
tax for imported goods. Logically, the bigger your problem, the
quicker you run to God, isn’t it? Yet, I wasted days stressing over
it, trying to find my own solution, only to realize that I had no way
out.

We know the Bible teaches us to cast all our cares on God, the One who
has power to take care of us (Psalm 55:22). It also tells us not to
worry, but in every situation, to present our requests to God
(Philippians 4:6). But perhaps, we are not really convinced that He
cares. There are so many problems in this world and so many people who
present their requests. Will God bother to listen to mine? And even if
He cares, what solution can He provide? It seems that there are better
things to do than just pray.

So God had to give me a huge problem to bring me to my knees. I
desperately acknowledged my limitation and asked God to enable me to
think clearly and find a solution. When I did that, it felt like a
heavy burden was lifted from my head. It is true that when we
surrender to Him, He replaces our frustration with His peace which
transcends all understanding (Philippians 4:7). My problem is still
there, but I am not caught up with stress anymore, knowing that I am
not all alone facing the problem.

Who we are with affects how we cope with our problems. If we’re
surrounded by optimistic people, problems are likely to seem less
daunting. But if we are around pessimists, we might end up discouraged
and disillusioned.

I am thankful that I have godly friends whom I can speak to during my
stressful days. While they are not “experts” who can fully understand
and diagnose my problem, they give me a lot of encouragement and
uphold me in their prayers. When I share with them the stress I’m
going through, I start to see my situation in a different light. And
my stress level decreases significantly.

To fight stress, look for a community that seeks to build up its
members. Be among those who love God and desire to grow like Christ.
That way, we can bear each other’s burdens and uphold each other
(Ecclesiastes 4:9-10; Proverbs 18:24).

You may be familiar with this quote: “Do not tell God how big your
problem is, but tell your problem how big your God is”. When we focus
merely on our problems, we are likely to feel stressed and
overwhelmed.

As I come to God in prayer and surround myself with the counsel of my
godly friends, I realize that I have many things to be thankful for.
God gave me the opportunity to learn this important lesson while my
business is still small. I cannot imagine if it happened when my
company is much larger. Not only would I have to pay bigger sum of
money, I may even implicate others who work with me (along with their
families).

American philosopher and psychologist William James once said: “The
greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought
over another.” And that’s what I exercised, choosing to shift my focus
from the what (problems) to the who (God). And, you know what? Even
amid difficult times, we can count our blessings. After all,
thanksgiving is God’s will for us, not only in good times, but also in
stressful times (1 Thessalonians 5:18).

As humans with limited understanding, we often jump to the wrong
conclusions. The story of the 12 spies always reminds me how important
it is to see things from God’s perspective. When 10 of the spies
reported that the land was teeming with fortified cities and powerful
giants, the Israelites concluded that God had abandoned them and their
situation was hopeless (Numbers 14:2-4). But Joshua and Caleb saw the
situation from a completely different perspective. They recognized
God’s goodness for presenting them with such a wonderful land, and had
full confidence in God’s protection over them (Numbers 14:7-9).

Instead of being overwhelmed by stress and hopelessness, I learned to
dwell on this question, “By allowing me to face this problem, what
does God want to do in and through me?” I’ve found that through
problems, I can grow stronger in character, wiser in solving problems,
and more careful in administration. This makes me be a better
businessman for His sake.

Casting our cares on God does not mean we become passive and careless.
If we do not apply what we learn from the process, we may find
ourselves facing the same level (or sometimes even more!) stress when
we come across similar problems.

To complete my story, I decided to find out more about tax
computation. As I browsed the Internet one day, I found an article
that explained about it. According to that article—and to my
surprise—my calculation was actually correct. I showed the article to
my tax consultant and received an affirmation that I did not have to
pay any fine. What a relief!

When God allows His children to face problems, He promises that the
problem will not exceed what we can bear, and He will provide a way
out so we can endure them (1 Corinthians 10:13). As we saturate our
mind with God’s promises, there will be no room for stress. We will be
able to accept our situations with thanksgiving and be open to lessons
we can learn because we know that God can use any situation to shape
His children into His likeness. He will even prepare us for bigger
things.

Think of the 13 difficult years that shaped Joseph before he became
the second in charge of the whole Egypt. Think of the many challenges
that tested Daniel’s faith under the reign of pagan kings, before the
king set him over the whole kingdom (Daniel 1-6).

As long as we’re alive, problems are inevitable, and we may go through
a lot of stress. But I learned that we don’t have to be defeated by
it. We can deal with stress by depending on God, holding tight to His
promises. We can seek counsel of godly friends and shift our focus to
God. We can fill our mind with thanksgiving and set our eyes on the
lesson God wants to teach us for His sake!

