http://ymi.today/2015/06/honoring-my-parents-from-afar/

Honoring My Parents From Afar

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jacob Wu, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

“Honor your father and your mother, so that you may live long in the
land the Lord your God is giving you.” (Exodus 20:12)

For the past eight years, I’ve been living away from home. In 2007, l
left Fuzhou, China, to pursue my studies; I now have a Master’s degree
and a job in Shanghai. Save for the winter and summer breaks when I
make short trips back home to visit my parents and younger sister, I’m
not with them most of the time.

It also means that I have to rely on telephone calls to communicate
with my parents. Naturally, every call from home is precious to me.
I’m always overwhelmed by the deep concern and love they have shown
and continue to shower on me all these years.

In the past, I used to feel guilty for not being by my parents’ side
and not being able to provide for them financially. Over time,
however, I’ve come to understand that there are other ways in which I
can honor them.

The most obvious way is to take good care of myself, especially in
terms of my health, everyday living, and finance. I need to ensure
that my parents do not worry unnecessarily about me. After all, which
parent isn’t concerned for the welfare of his or her children?

If I am able to manage my life well, my parents can be comforted
despite my absence. They often say that as long as I take good care of
myself, it’s enough. I guess most parents put their children’s needs
ahead of their own. And as we mature and become more independent, our
parents will naturally be more assured and able to let go.

On the other hand, I need to start taking on more responsibilities in
the household as my parents grow older so that they know they will be
taken care of in their old age.

Earlier this year, when I went home for the Spring Festival
celebrations, I noticed some tension between my family and extended
family. This episode made me realize that I could apply biblical
principles to handle family conflicts and misunderstandings. Just like
how He used Queen Esther to save the Jews, perhaps God has placed me
in a position where my faith, education, and experiences could play a
part in helping to resolve the problems confronting my family. Just
like how He used Queen Esther to save the Jews, perhaps God has placed
me in a position where my faith, education, and experiences could play
a part in helping to resolve the problems confronting my family. And
like Esther, I need to be courageous enough to take a stand.

Matthew 5:9 has always been an encouragement to me: “Blessed are the
peacemakers, for they will be called children of God ”. It reminds me
that a true son of God is one who seeks to make peace.

Although I will continue to live away from my family I don’t feel
lonely. I know that wherever I’m at, I can always find a family in the
body of Christ. As for my parents and sister, I will continue to
fulfill my duty to them. I believe I do not need to worry about them
too much, because I know that our Father in Heaven will take care of
us all.

