http://ymi.today/2017/03/let-logic-or-faith-lead/

Let Logic or Faith lead?

Author: by YMI

Written By Aliyah Lauren Jacobs, South Africa

My chest is tight, my palms are sweaty, I can barely hold back my
tears. I’m an emotional mess. I’m undone in this place of prayer. I
struggle to find the words I need—but I know He knows.

Nine months ago, I was given a vision by God to create, steward, and
lead. This unraveled into an opportunity to recreate the stories of 13
extraordinary women in a photo essay that would finally culminate in
an exhibition in an art gallery in Cape Town, South Africa.

Let me explain. I love reading history books, and this love of history
and ancient times has led me to research and teach about women in the
Bible for over eight years. But biblical stories are just one end of
the spectrum. In this present season, God impressed on my heart a
desire to shine the spotlight on 13 women from history.

My goal was to teach others about the role these women played as
leaders, visionaries, and pioneers in their areas of influence. The
world’s first computer programmer was a woman named Ada Lovelace, she
was one of the first woman I had to showcase. Then came Hypatia, an
astronomer and teacher who was killed for her intelligence and
strength. Hannah More was a warrior of the pen, fighting to end
slavery alongside her friend William Wilberforce, Rhoda from Acts
chapter 12 is featured in this exhibition, as a picture of faith in
the prayers you pray. I posed as Anna Comnena, the world’s first
female historian and two of my favourite female leaders Hatshepsut the
Egyptian Pharoah and Boudica, the Iceni queen, are striking examples
of women who ruled. These were just some of the women I felt the world
needs to know about.

At first, things seemed to be proceeding well. God provided the
photographer, the models, and a theatre store that gave me a good
discount when they heard about the vision of my project. The location
for our photoshoot was perfect, like something out of an old film,
filled to the brim with props and old settings. God provided
faithfully every step—until the provision dried up and I entered the
desert.

I rented the venue, sold tickets, and organized the opening event for
this photo journey—yet certain doors seemed to stay shut. Less than
three weeks before the opening of the exhibition, I still didn’t have
the finances to get the photos onto canvas. None of the sponsors who
had promised finances had delivered on their word.

The needs continued to pile up: payment for the speakers who would
minister at the opening event, food for the guests, money for the art
gallery. I bore the burden on my shoulders, until my faith began to
wear thin. That’s when I broke down in prayer. I was stressed, a
broken mess, wrestling between logic and faith.

As I sat on the floor weeping, a tiny voice of reason spoke into my
conscience. If I didn’t have the money and the other doors weren’t
opening, it was time to give up, return the ticket money and move on.
It was the logical thing to do. It was also a way out of my emotional
mess. Had I reached out to a family member or friend and had they seen
my tear stained face and red eyes, they would have expressed concern
and told me it was okay if I could not pull this exhibition off.

Yet, I knew this decision would run contrary to what I believed. I
heard another voice. Go on,  take the pictures in, prepare the flyers
and keep going. I was tired but God’s words stirred tiny embers inside
my soul.

It was a long hard week, pushing through and not getting any
breakthroughs. Time was running out; there were still no finances, no
open doors. Yet, the spark within nudged me to rest in God and let it
be. The voice to quit never rose up again. the spark within nudged me
to rest in God and let it be. The voice to quit never rose up again.

As I waited, I meditated on Joshua and the Israelites who stood armed
on the border of a land they had never seen before (Joshua 6). It was
a land they knew nothing about, but had been promised to them by the
Almighty. They were armed with physical weapons, but more than that,
faith in the voice of God, against giants. I was inspired by the
Israelites blind faith. They had never seen this “promised land”
before, they did not know what it looked like or what they would
encounter once they entered the borders of Canaan. They also would
have to fight hard to receive the land they believed was destined to
be theirs, yet they went forward. They crossed over, with weapons of
faith in God’s Voice of promise.

As the long hard week drew to a close, God restored me with hope. A
school for at risk teens reached out and asked if their girls could
come to the exhibition. Empowering young women is my passion and when
this request came through, I was overwhelmed with joy.

Also, this opened an opportunity to raise funds to bless these
children to attend the exhibition, receive free gifts and food. Soon
enough, a discount was offered by a local print shop and then one
morning, a donation came in to our ministry. The amount was enough to
print every one of the canvases I was still waiting to print! The
exhibition opened on the 11th of March and will run until the end of
the month. Somehow, I managed to pay the speakers, my father paid for
the food for the guests and it turned out to be a blessed opening
event.

Attending to faith and allowing it to build the logic of my life, has
led me in my weaknesses. It has also enabled me to be a witness to
miracles and to draw closer to God in intimacy. In fact, the more I
heed His Voice and live in obedience to Him, the louder His Voice
becomes to me. I’ve also come to realize that if God has spoken
something, then what He has spoken is logic—the logic I will hold on
to with trust and faith.

God’s voice should be the vehicle to overcome doubt, no matter what.

