http://ymi.today/2017/06/what-if-im-not-sure-what-to-do-with-my-life/

What If I’m Not Sure What to Do With My Life?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Sam Ly, Singapore

“What is your advice to people who do not know what they want to do
with their lives yet?”

I was recently asked this question by a polytechnic student at my alma
mater when I was there to share about getting into law school and
studying law. My reply in short was this: It’s okay if you’re still
not sure, don’t be afraid of uncertainty.

Let me explain.

In Singapore, one has to make the decision about what course to study
either at the age of 17 (for those applying to polytechnic or the
Institute of Technical Education) or 19, for those going to
university. At this stage of our lives, most of us may not be entirely
sure about what we like to do, or want to work as in the future. While
we may pray and ask the Lord to tell us clearly what we ought to do
with our lives, God doesn’t always give us a clear “calling”.

Was I crystal clear that it was God’s will for me to pursue a diploma
in law? Certainly not at the beginning. Law was recommended to me on
the simple basis that I was always a strong advocate of right and
wrong. As I continued to grow in my relationship with the Lord and
through my studies, God showed me—through conversations with other
believers and my internship experiences—that I was suited for this
area of work, and that my knowledge of the law could indeed be used
for His kingdom. That’s when I continued to pursue a degree in law as
well.

Am I now crystal clear that it is God’s will for me to become a
lawyer? Certainly not either. While I know that I want to serve in the
field of law, and have been working hard to ensure that my
understanding of the law will be useful for His Kingdom work, I do not
have full assurance that God wants me to become a lawyer for the rest
of my working life. There are many things beyond my foresight and
control which may lead me to reconsider the very question I started
this article with: what am I to do with my life?

So, what am I actually clear about? Did I bring you around in circles
just to tell you that we can never have clarity about how to live our
lives?

No, certainly not. There is one thing I am crystal clear about and
it’s this: my life ought to be spent in full seeking God’s kingdom
first and His righteousness (Matthew 6:33). There is one thing I am
crystal clear about and it’s this: my life ought to be spent in full
seeking God’s kingdom first and His righteousness (Matthew 6:33).
While I may not be so sure about my “what”, I am sure about my “why”.

The world operates on a system that convinces us that our identity
rests in what we do as a lawyer, an athlete, a pastor, etc. But I
believe the true answer can be found if we are clear about who Jesus
is and who we are. When Christ forms the core of our identity, we have
the greatest reassurance of who we are and why we walk this earth. Our
identity lies in being God’s children, and not in what we do.

To clarify, I am not advocating a nonchalant and lazy approach of
merely waiting for opportunities and “signs” to drop from heaven. To a
large extent, we still have to seek opportunities and put ourselves in
places where we can understand more about ourselves. What I’m saying
is this: the fear of not knowing what to do with our lives need not
cripple us. In fact, our scramble to have everything in complete order
may come from a heart that is seeking to wrestle with God for absolute
control over our lives. That mad dash for grades, internships and
other things in our “to-do” list may suggest that our actions are
motivated by fears and desires instead of whole-hearted trust in God
(Proverbs 3:5-6).

I may not be crystal clear about what I will do or how I will do it,
but I am crystal clear about why I will do whatever God calls me to
do. As long as I’m seeking first His kingdom and His righteousness, I
know that all these things shall be given to me (Matthew 6:33). So,
fellow believers, may I encourage you not to fear seasons of
uncertainty, for we surrender our lives (and our future) into the safe
and trustworthy hands of God.

