https://ymi.today/2017/12/2017-the-year-my-resolutions-failed-
spectacularly/

2017: The Year My Resolutions Failed Spectacularly

Author: by Contributor

Written By Priscilla G., Singapore

I’ve had years in which I did not meet my new year resolutions, but
never a year in which I failed in my resolutions as spectacularly as I
did this past year.

This August marked my fifth year working as a journalist with a media
company in Singapore. While I had my share of bad days at work, I
loved my job. I enjoyed meeting interesting people and telling their
stories. I specialized in covering social issues—issues that affect
disadvantaged groups—so I felt the job was meaningful. Though my
working hours were flexible at best and irregular at worst, God gave
me the grace to still be able to spend time with family and church.

At the start of the year, one of my resolutions was to get a promotion
and win more awards for my articles. To me, these goals were
attainable. I’d won awards before. And I wanted a promotion as an
affirmation of my work, not so much for the pay rise.



Long story short, not only was I not promoted, I was told in October
that I would be redeployed the following month. I was to be
transferred to another department and take on a job that I did not ask
for nor want.

The news came as a shock. Many of us had seen the company’s
restructuring exercise coming, but I did not expect younger workers
like myself (I am in my late 20s) to be affected. I knew of at least
three others who were redeployed, and at least four who were
retrenched.

The month before I was told of my redeployment, my supervisor had
nominated me for an award. And as of 6:30 p.m. that fateful day, I
still had not heard about my own redeployment—the human resource
department was busy talking to the many employees who were retrenched,
so I was informed about it at about 6:40 p.m.

Until that day, I had never cried so much in a day before. I cried
when I spoke to my supervisor in the office canteen immediately after
being told the bad news. I tried to hold back the tears when I
returned to my desk. I cried during a cell group meeting later that
day. I cried to God at home, until about 3:00 a.m.

I loved my job. I loved it enough to stay on for five years without a
bond, and to stay on while at least seven of my peers quit before I
did. But I now had to move to another job within two weeks.

During the prayer that ended at 3:00 a.m, I asked God several
questions: What just happened? Why? Was I not a good steward of the
gift, of this job You gave me? Did I make my job my god? What did I do
wrong? If I did something wrong, why didn’t You give me some sign or
warning? Usually the Holy Spirit convicts me when I sin, but this
redeployment was a bolt from the blue.



Amid all those tears, I felt God assure me that the redeployment
wasn’t my fault. He reminded me that all the authority figures in my
life—my parents at home, my cell leader in church, my supervisor at
work—did not sound out any problems when I got busier at work.

He also helped me realize that the career move was something He
wanted. I have had several signs from God, since the age of 12, that
led me to believe that He wanted me to be a journalist in that
company. I had the conviction that I would quit only if the signs
leading me out were as clear as or clearer than the signs leading
me in. To me, the redeployment was a clear sign to move out, at least
for this season in my life.

I also felt assurance of His guidance. Two days after hearing the
redeployment news, I listened to a sermon about following God’s
signals and road map. One of the first verses mentioned was Psalm
32:8: “I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I
will counsel you with my loving eye on you.” Perhaps because the verse
is written in the first person, it felt like God was speaking directly
to me.

Eventually, within less than a month of being told of my redeployment,
I found a new job in the corporate communications team of a social
service agency that serves people with disabilities.

Events moved much faster than I expected, but I do not think my career
move was a rash decision. I did not just settle for any organization
with a job opening; this new job met various criteria I had. For
instance, the organization serves people with disabilities, and I had
covered news stories on the disability sector, so the job was not
totally unfamiliar territory. My salary expectations were met too.

I am also thankful that I could sign the job contract and submit my
resignation letter to my previous company before leaving for a mission
trip. The security of knowing what lies ahead gave me more peace of
mind during the week-long trip.

By the grace of God, I will start my new job in January 2018. I am
thankful for the lessons I have learned through this episode of failed
resolutions.



I have learned that going through disappointment with God is better
than going through it without Him.

It was helpful to have advice and words of encouragement from friends,
but God’s presence and words were more satisfying. They gave me
comfort and healing from the bitterness towards my previous company,
so I could let go of the hurt and move on. They gave me direction and
wisdom when I needed to know where to move to next. They gave me
courage and hope for the future. The nearness of God is a good thing
(Psalm 73:28).

It is important to turn to God first to deal with the emotions within,
rather than denying them and going to the extreme of being task-
oriented. I find it interesting that in Philippians 4:6-7, Paul says
that if people present their requests to God in prayer instead of
being anxious, “the peace of God . . . will guard” their hearts and
minds. He could have used the word “filled”, but “guard” suggests a
defence against something. Peace can guard us from making unwise and
rash decisions.



There were moments when I found myself thinking about the if-only’s
and what-if’s, or dwelling on the “why me?” question. But God reminded
me of a popular Christian quote: “God grant me the serenity to accept
what I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the
wisdom to know the difference.”

So, for the first few days after hearing the redeployment news, I
focused on gathering information so I could make informed decisions. I
went to find out more about the content marketing job that I was
redeployed to, and what my options were if I did not want to accept
it. I learned that it would still involve writing, but it was not
journalism and would involve writing for a variety of clients, not
necessarily the social service sector. I knew early on that this was
not what I wanted, so I focused on thinking more about what other jobs
I wanted. I narrowed it down to journalism and a corporate
communications job in the social service sector. Eventually, it came
down to the latter.



Despite what I was going through and even before I found my new job in
the social service sector, I could find some reasons to be thankful to
God. I realized that many of the dreams I had wanted to achieve as a
journalist had been fulfilled, even if I felt my time as a journalist
was being cut short. I think Christians are often in the headlines for
wrong reasons, so one of my dreams was to feature the good work of the
body of Christ.

Over my five years as a journalist, I was able to, by God’s grace,
write a story about a church’s unique calendar for needy residents in
the community, a story about a pastor with cerebral palsy, and another
story that had a brief mention of a Bible verse (Psalm 55:22). I also
wrote a personal column which included a quote from Christian author
John Piper.



When I start my new job next month, it may not be smooth sailing, and
I probably will have to get used to many things. But I’m reminded of
God’s faithfulness and provision, and I believe that having opened
this door of opportunity, He will also empower me in the journey that
lies ahead.

