http://ymi.today/2015/12/what-does-jesus-mean-to-you/

What Does Jesus Mean to You?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Cassandra Bellamy, USA

One Tuesday night at Bible Study class, our teacher—after pacing back
and forth in his usual manner, with one finger over his lips—looked at
us and asked: “What is Jesus to you?”

Walking down each pew, he gave everyone an opportunity to share what
Jesus meant personally. Some said Jesus was their Savior, because He
saved them from doing all sorts of bad things. Others said Jesus was
their strength and healer, because He healed them when they had been
sick. One person shared how Jesus had been both his mother and father
since the passing of his parents.

As everyone shared his or her story, I asked myself who Jesus was to
me. The lines, “Jesus is a rock in a weary land”, “Jesus is the lily
of the valley”, and “Jesus is a shelter in the time of a storm” came
to mind. I knew Jesus was all those things and more—He is whatever we
need Him to be. Yet none of those answers seemed appropriate for my
personal experience.

When it came to my turn to share, I realized that Jesus has been (and
still is) my friend. I remembered all those days I would cry to Him
because I felt so lonely. I would ask Him why I didn’t have someone
special in my life, why I didn’t have many friends and why I was born
with Arthrogryposis, a congenital joint deformity.

As I cried and wallowed in self-pity, God’s peace and love would come
over me. I felt better afterward, the way one feels after crying on
the shoulder of her best friend. I felt that way because I knew Jesus
heard all of my heartaches. He assured me that I was going to be okay
(and I am).

Peter instructs the church to “Cast all your anxiety on him because he
cares for you.” (1 Peter 5:7). All we have to do is to tell God what
we need. He is listening. He is always there for us. I love the lyrics
from the hymn, What a Friend We Have in Jesus, which goes:

What a friend we have in Jesus, All our sins and griefs to bear! What
a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer! O what peace we
often forfeit. O what needless pain we bear. All because we do not
carry everything to God in prayer!

Have we trials and temptation? Is there trouble anywhere? We should
never be discouraged; Take it to the Lord in prayer. Can we find a
friend so faithful who will all our sorrows share? Jesus knows our
every weakness; Take it to the Lord in prayer.

Are we weak and heavy laden, cumbered with a load of care? Precious
Savior, still our refuge; Take it to the Lord in prayer. Do thy
friends despise forsake thee? Take it to the Lord in prayer! In His
arms he’ll take and shield thee: Thou wilt find a solace there.

Who is Jesus to you? Do you need someone to carry your burdens? Jesus
will!

