http://ymi.today/2015/12/wheres-the-joy-this-christmas/

Where’s the Joy This Christmas?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Chia Poh Fang, Singapore

The weather has turned chilly. The sky is mostly overcast. Raindrops
splatter the ground, as though someone forgot to turn off the
sprinkler.

December feels sorrowful. In this month, bad things happened. A good
friend’s mum went into the surgical room for a minor operation, but
never came out alive. Another experienced complications during
childbirth and the long anticipated child came into the world with
permanent disabilities.

Yet, while my friends are grieving, the world is still spinning. The
crematorium is filled with anguished mourners; and the malls are
thronged with merry makers.

Amid such a grim setting, a glimmer of light shines through. This
sounds so clichéd but it’s true. For in this mournful month, we
celebrate the birth of Christ—a historical event, the fulfillment of a
promise made many years ago.

“The people walking in darkness have seen a great light; on those
living in the land of deep darkness a light has dawned . . . . For to
us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be
on his shoulders. And he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty
God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.” —Isaiah 9:2,6

God entered our broken world, broken dreams, and broken lives. He came
alongside us in our pain; He shows us that He cares. God became man
and made visible for us the invisible God. Through Jesus, we see and
understand that God is love. He is compassionate and He has the power
to heal. Eventually, Jesus gave up His life for us. By His sacrifice,
God is turning a world that has gone upside down the right-side up.

On Christmas, we recall Christ’s first coming to bring hope to the
hopeless and to give life to the perishing. It also points to the
certainty of another day—a day when Christ will come again to wipe
away every tear. When He returns, there will be no more death,
mourning or crying or pain. Indeed, all these things will be gone
forever.

So when we think about Christmas and are heartbroken to face another
holiday with tears, may the remembrance of Christ’s coming comfort us
in our pain and give us hope to face another day.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 5 Articles | Giving“

