http://ymi.today/2017/02/confessions-of-a-single-guy/

Confessions of a Single Guy

Author: by Contributor

Written By Aryanto Wijaya, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

“When I was a child, I saw adults dating. When I became an adult, I
saw children dating.”

I laughed when I saw these words on a meme while scrolling through
Instagram. I knew exactly what the meme was talking about. Many of my
friends started dating in high school, but I have remained single
throughout college and even after I’ve started working.

I was raised in a broken family, and had trouble with my self-
confidence. I was not rich, could not play any musical instruments, or
do sports. So I figured I was only an ordinary guy and would not be
anyone’s ideal type. Though I had fallen in love with several
different girls in the past, I was usually too nervous to tell them. I
often thought that if I told a girl that I loved her, it would ruin
our friendship. Instead, I kept my feelings to myself, and just
remained friends.

Eventually, in college, I fell in love with my best friend. We went to
the same Christian youth fellowship every Tuesday night. We prayed
together, hung out, and shared burdens. I finally told her how I felt
towards her a few months before graduation. But she said she didn’t
want to date, and preferred to remain best friends. I respected her
decision. We are still good friends today even though we have since
gone our own separate ways after graduation.

Not having a girlfriend, however, does not mean that my life is any
less worthwhile. In the same way, my life would not always be better
if I had a girlfriend. I have often listened to brokenhearted friends
share about their breakups.

I’m happy being single at the moment. Though there are times I feel
lonely, I’m learning to channel my emotions and energy during such
moments towards meaningful activities.



I love to travel. During my four years of college in Yogyakarta, an
Indonesian city, I travelled perhaps half of Indonesia, from
westernmost Sabang Island to the northern city of Manado. Once, I even
spent 30 days travelling across the island of Sumatra with a German
friend.

Travelling is a way for me to meet people. I make a lot of friends
while travelling, especially through my couch surfing community. And
when my new friends express curiosity about my faith, it becomes a
great opportunity to share about Jesus with them.

Travelling also reminds me that God always provides. For example, I
was working as a student staff at my university which gave me the
opportunity to travel throughout Indonesia to promote our school to
high school students. And when I travelled with other backpackers,
they often paid for my accommodation.

I enjoy writing about my travels and sharing my thoughts and
experiences with other people. I believe that God is using my skills
and interests to enrich my life, and hopefully the lives of others.
What has He been doing in your life?



I believe that when I learn to love and be content with what God has
already given me, He will give me new responsibilities in His own
time. Jesus told us that “Whoever can be trusted with very little can
also be trusted with much, and whoever is dishonest with very little
will also be dishonest with much.” (Luke 16:10)

I believe God wants me to use this stage of singleness to love my
friends and family—and He uses this to enrich my life and theirs. I’ve
learned to empathize with the problems my loved ones face and be a
better listener.

Twice a month, I go back to my hometown to visit my family. I
recognize that my parents are getting older so I make it a point to
let them know how special they are to me and buy them food. I also
spend time keeping in touch with my friends through phone calls and
weekend visits. Because I do not have to coordinate my schedule with a
girlfriend or wife, I have time to listen to my loved ones’ problems,
encourage them, pray with them, and hang out with them.

If you’re at the same stage life as me, why not consider how to use
this time to be a blessing to those around you?



I often like to say that I don’t need a soul mate because God created
my soul complete. If and when God decides that it’s time for me to
leave my singleness, He will naturally provide someone. What I need to
do in the meantime is to focus on how God wants me to live my life to
the fullest and bless others.

The completeness of someone’s life is not determined by whether he has
a mate or not. God has already created us complete. Regardless of our
relationship status, God has a good plan that He wants to accomplish
through us.

Are you living a fulfilling life now?



Read “5 Ways to Become the Most Eligible Bachelorette” here.

