https://ymi.today/2018/01/when-god-rejects-our-dreams/

When God Rejects our Dreams

Author: by Contributor

Written by Krisandryka Wijaya, Indonesia

I love Neurology. The study of the disorders and diseases of the
nervous system fascinates me. During my time at medical school, I
participated in Indonesian Medical Olympiad and though I didn’t win,
the experience strengthened my love for the branch of medical science.
After graduating from medical school, I applied to be a neurology
resident at a public university.

From where I come from, you can choose between a public or private
university if you want to be a General Practitioner (GP). But if you
want to be a specialist, i.e. a neurologist, surgeon, pediatrician
etc., you must attend a public university.

The thing is, the odds of getting accepted into a public university
are very low. According to my seniors, test results and work
experience play a tiny role in determining whether or not you get
accepted. Instead, your connections, faith, and ethnic group play a
much more significant part—or in their words, “Those who are accepted
are either blue-bloods or the lucky ones.”

Being a part of the minority (as a Chinese and a Christian) with
neither work experience nor connections, my hopes of getting accepted
into a public university were not high. During the residency
interview, one of the interviewers implied that I didn’t have any work
experience and failed to prove my interest in neurology. So when I was
notified that I didn’t get accepted, I only felt a tinge of
disappointment, knowing that I had two attempts to try and get in. I
held onto the tiny glimmer of hope that I would get accepted the
second time and prove them wrong.

Two months later, I started working in a hospital as a GP. I worked
shifts and on top of that, I was attached as an intern to the two
neurologists working in the hospital. I got into work early five days
a week to follow up on their patients, assist them in their rounds,
and also help out in the neurology clinic. Though doubling up as an
intern and a GP was exhausting, I thoroughly enjoyed the experience. I
believed that this would greatly boost my resume and give me a
fighting chance when I made my second attempt to apply for residency.

I had high hopes when I took the test the second time. I thought I did
pretty well in the written tests—I had studied much harder this time
than the first round—and at the interview too. It also seemed like the
interviewers were much nicer to me; I didn’t pick up on any possible
hint of rejection.

But I was completely wrong.  On December 20, I received my second, and
final “No”.

I was in disbelief. Though I knew that I was up against all odds, I
believed that God was able to make it happen if He wanted to.
Apparently that was not the case. It was like God Himself had rejected
my dream and I was left hurt. It was like God Himself had rejected my
dream and I was left hurt.

“Why didn’t You give me what I want?” I asked God repeatedly during
that time. Though I still prayed and read the Bible daily, I was
disappointed and angry with God. I celebrated Christmas and New Year’s
half-heartedly. I felt lost. I knew that God works for the good of all
who love Him (Romans 8:28 is actually my favorite verse in the Bible)
but I just couldn’t see the good in this at all. My top new year’s
resolution was to trust God’s plan for my life. But how was I going to
do it now?

God provided the answer soon enough. On the first Sunday of 2018, I
attended the second service for young professionals and new parents (I
usually attend the youth service but I overslept that day). The sermon
was based on Jeremiah 29, with an emphasis on the verses 11-14. Most
of us would find verse 11 familiar, “For I know the plans I have for
you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you,
plans to give you hope and a future.”

Though I’d heard these verses many times before, I’d never really
understood them in their original context. What I learned that day was
that God had given this word to the Israelites during a difficult and
dark time in Israel’s history when many of them were exiled to
Babylon. They couldn’t accept the fact that 800 years after being
freed from Egyptian bondage, God would once again allow them to return
to bondage in Babylon. But God said through His prophet Jeremiah that
70 years must pass before they would be able to return to their
homeland.

Hearing the passage in its original context gave me a much better
appreciation of the promise God made to the Israelites. I felt like I
could identify with the Israelites, who must have struggled to hold
onto God’s promise to them in the midst of their bondage. But, at the
same time, I was reminded that the same God who took care of
them—delivered them from their slavery, provided for them in the
wilderness, defeated the mighty Canaanites, gave them the Promised
Land and made them into a great nation—is the same God who takes care
of me. He gave me life and the gift of salvation, provided for my
family, and enabled me to go to medical school and become a GP, among
other things. God allowed the Israelites to go into exile as part of
His plan for them and I could trust that He allowed me to go through
this as part of His overall plan for my life.

At present, I am continuing my work as a GP in the same hospital I was
previously interning at and I will be getting married at the end of
this year to a fellow doctor. Though I know I may never be able to
attain my dream of becoming a neurologist, especially if we do start
our own family, I do not fear the future anymore because I know that
God holds my future.

He is the author of my life who has good plans for me. So I trust Him
and His plans as I journey on this road of life with Him by my side.

