http://ymi.today/2017/08/the-christian-walk-a-warm-summer-holiday/

The Christian Walk: A Warm Summer Holiday?

Author: by Michele Ong

I was brimming with excitement when I finalized my bookings for my big
trip to Europe last year. Having forked out a significant amount of
money for both my air tickets and a new camera, I was certain my first
trip to UK and France would be a complete blast.

I could barely wait to share in my friends’ experiences, having heard
stories and seen Instagram pictures of those doing their overseas
experience on the antipodes. I dreamed of the endless bookshops I
could visit in London, admiring my literary heroes, both past and
present. In particular, I couldn’t wait to see Shakespeare and
Company—the “small, crumbling bookshop on Paris’s Left Bank” that UK
newspaper The Independent described as possibly “the most famous
bookstore in the world”. I also looked forward to Parisian chic,
croissants, beautiful apartments, breath-taking architecture and
mustached-men playing their accordions around the cafes and sidewalk.

I fantasized of a warm summer holiday swanning around in cute summer
dresses (bye-bye, boring black winter stockings), and looking forward
to showing off my arms, which I had been working on at the gym. My
thoughts were filled with taking pretty photos on my new camera,
filling my Instagram account with envy-worthy photos, and walking
Paris’ Champs-Élysées under a starlit night.

What hadn’t been part of the itinerary was falling sick during my
three-week vacation.

It could have been the hectic schedule or the change in weather (it
was winter in New Zealand but summer in the northern hemisphere), but
my body wasn’t playing ball. What started as a bit of a sneeze and an
itchy throat soon morphed into something else entirely in Europe.

There was a point when I completely lost my voice, managing only a
croak. To make matters worse, my body decided to reject every kind of
food. I was throwing up after every meal and my nose would start
bleeding without rhyme or reason.

On one traumatic morning in Brixton, London, my friend and I were
running as fast as we could, with our backpacks, to catch an Uber ride
to the train station for our flight to France. That’s when I felt a
sickly drip down my nose, and my suspicion was confirmed the minute I
wiped my nose with a tissue. With blood dripping down my face, I must
have looked like I was running away from a fight (or for my life).

In France, I visited the pharmacy so many times you’d be forgiven for
thinking I had it down as a must-see tourist destination. Then my nose
started acting up again, just before we made our way to the
Shakespeare and Company. I was so terrified I would start bleeding all
over the nice, new books that I made sure to have a wad of tissues
near me. My backpack soon morphed into a first-aid kit: I had a bottle
of cough syrup, cough drops, paracetamol, and packs of tissues.

I woke up each morning with dread. Would my nose behave today? Would I
be able to hold my meal in or would today see me bent over the
bathroom sink while my guts tried to make their escape?

Funnily enough, my holiday-gone-wrong had me thinking about my
Christian walk: how expectation didn’t always match reality.

It was at a church play that I answered the altar call at the age of
12. While I cannot recall the play in full detail, I do remember the
title was Heaven’s Gates and Hell’s Flames, and it had scenes
featuring a non-believer and a believer. In each scene, there was a
tragedy, and the non-believer was sent away to somewhere rather hot
and fiery. I certainly didn’t want to go there, so giving my life to
God seemed like a get-out-of-jail-free card to escape the fiery
furnace. I figured all I had to do was accept Jesus as my Savior and
He would swoop me out of hell.

As I grew up, I began to hear altar calls that went along the lines of
how accepting Jesus into your life was the “best thing you can ever
do”. “And from now on, your new life begins . . .” was another often
repeated phrase.

For me, it conjured up a life without pain, where Jesus would sweep
down from Heaven to catch us before we scrape our knees. Jesus would
also save me from making silly mistakes in my exams and prepare a cool
crowd of friends for me.

However, none of that happened, and at one point, I was angry at Jesus
my forever friend, who I felt had ditched me during my most crucial
moments. For example, I remember scoring a C on a Math test and fuming
at Him. Not just that, how could He allow boys to dump me? And why did
I receive email after email of rejection when I was desperately
seeking employment?

You see, I had fallen into trap after being sold the idea that being
with Jesus is the “best thing of my life”. But Jesus didn’t guarantee
that a life with Him will be free of tribulations. The Bible tells of
a blameless and upright man named Job, who feared God and “abstained
from and shunned evil” (Job 1:1). Job was also a rich landowner who
was blessed with a big family and a large stock of animals. But Job
went through some real tough situations. He lost his family and all of
his animals in one day, suffered from sicknesses, and at one point,
wished he was never born.

Reading Job’s story made me realize that following God doesn’t
necessarily spell a smooth ride. Reading Job’s story made me realize
that following God doesn’t necessarily spell a smooth ride. There will
be times where I will be tested or left clinging onto my faith. But
Job’s story has also showed how faithful God is, and I took comfort
knowing Job’s life had a happy ending, where in the end, God restored
everything he had lost.

Even though my own Christian walk has been filled with ups and
downs—nothing like Job’s thankfully—I can sincerely say I don’t regret
answering the altar call as a 12-year-old. With God, I know He is just
one call away. I have lost count of the times God has answered my
prayers and I love resting in the deep, unconditional love He has for
me.

I also take heart in knowing when my life ends on Earth, I’ll begin a
perfect one with Him in Heaven. The Bible says Heaven will be a place
where God will wipe every tear from our eyes, a perfect place where
there will be no more death, or crying, or mourning or pain, for the
old order of things have passed away (Revelation 21:4).

This perfect place may sound like a fantasy, but unlike the fantasy I
had of my holiday (where nothing went as planned), I know this promise
will not disappoint. That makes all the present suffering worthwhile!



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



