http://ymi.today/2017/10/i-cant-stand-judgmental-christians/

I Can’t Stand Judgmental Christians

Author: by Contributor

Written By Kelsey Tarver, USA

I used to think like this: Judgmental? Not me! I can’t stand people
who judge others.

The contradiction was right there in the statement, and somehow I was
oblivious to it. But I said this boldly because I meant it.

The very sound of the word “judgmental” makes me cringe. If I close my
eyes, it makes me picture a proud face with a stuck up nose, glaring
eyes, and an air of disapproval looming in my direction. But the worst
kind of judgment is the kind that comes from a loved one or a friend.

I know all about being judged. Growing up as a pastor’s kid, I became
used to all eyes being glued to my family. Like a giant magnifying
glass constantly observing; “What is she wearing? Why were they late
to church today? Is that a new car? How did they afford that?  Why is
she talking in service?” Even into my adult years as a member of staff
in a church, I have felt the constant eyes critiquing my every move.

Of course, not everyone was like this. For the most part I loved
growing up in front of so many people in a loving church family. But
aren’t there always just a few members who know how to make your blood
boil? I would store them in a place in my mind that said, “Well, I
love them but I don’t have to like them.”

This created a passion in me to never judge other people. I longed to
extend grace and understanding, and judgmental gossip alone would make
rage stir up inside my soul. My sensitivity towards this was birthed
out of a very pure place. I simply longed so deeply for others to not
have to feel bullied or judged, and I wanted everyone I encountered to
feel accepted and loved. I simply longed so deeply for others to not
have to feel bullied or judged, and I wanted everyone I encountered to
feel accepted and loved.

But somehow along the way this pure desire ended up manifesting itself
into a form of judgment that my eyes could not see. What was once an
aspiration towards true love turned into love for people who were like
me, with limited grace towards others who struggled with judgment or
gossip.

The irony is thick! The very thing I hated, ended up being exactly
what I became.



As Christians, I think it can be very easy to fall into the trap of
judgment because we all have a high standard of how we want each other
to live. We know what the Bible says and we expect each other to act
like it. Unfortunately, when judgment sneaks its way into our church
walls, we start looking a whole lot more critical of one another and a
lot less like love.

Judgment has a slippery little way of sneaking its way into our hearts
if we aren’t paying attention to our motives. It’s a sin that can
sometimes be birthed from a pure place of longing for justice, but
when only justice is present and grace gets left behind it leaves both
sides feeling wounded. As Christian writer C.S. Lewis said, “See the
Bear in his own den before you judge his conditions.”

Maybe that person absolutely hates that they are judgmental or
gossipy. Maybe just like any other addict, they have to work each and
every day to jump over their hurdle of their temptation to judge.
Maybe their mom, or grandma, or family comes from a long line of being
very judgmental and it’s all they’ve ever been around and have to work
their tail end off to stay positive.

I judged judgmental people because I had, by accident, boxed them up
and labeled them all the same. Gossips, pot stirrers, mean, etc. but
the thing is no one person is the same. Each person has different life
experiences, pains, and pasts shaping them. Lewis also says, “Don’t
judge a man by where He is, because you don’t know how far He has
come.”

Once I understood that hurt people, hurt people, it made me feel more
sympathetic to people who spend so much time talking about others or
tearing them down with judgment or gossip.



We are to love judgers the same way we would an alcoholic or a sex or
drug addict. To know that every person has a weakness, and that the
quickest way to helping one another overcome our issues is to lay our
judgment aside and learn to simply be there for one another, in love
and in grace.

Scripture is very clear about judgment. I cringe now thinking that I
used to hear lessons about judgment and somehow thought it wasn’t my
burden to bear. God taught me to check my heart, know my worth, and
never ever think that I had something mastered in my faith walk. The
enemy loves to watch pride manifest in the areas that we think we have
under control.

It is human nature to have certain people we connect to more than
others in the body of Christ. But God has taught me that though that
might be true, each and every person deserves to be treated with the
same level of love and respect, even if it seems extremely hard to do
so.

God gives us the ability to love deeper than we could have ever
dreamed, and this applies even to those people who just seem to crawl
under our skin. Unity is essential to the bride of Christ, and when we
truly leave judgment at the door, it leaves a much more beautiful and
whole picture of true Christ-like love on display.



“Do not judge others, and you will not be judged.  For you will be
treated as you treat others. The standard you use in judging is the
standard by which you will be judged. “And why worry about a speck in
your friend’s eye when you have a log in your own?  How can you think
of saying to your friend, ‘Let me help you get rid of that speck in
your eye,’ when you can’t see past the log in your own
eye?  Hypocrite! First get rid of the log in your own eye; then you
will see well enough to deal with the speck in your friend’s eye.”
(Matthew 7:1-5)

