http://ymi.today/2015/12/why-i-set-up-a-christmas-tree-every-year/

Why I Set Up A Christmas Tree Every year

Author: by Contributor

Written By Karen Kwek, Singapore

I’m fussy when it comes to Christmas trees. I like mine a certain
way—no less than six feet (1.8m) tall, boughs filled out with green
needly foliage, handmade ornaments, and twinkling (not flashing!)
lights.

Never mind that I live in a tropical country and it’s an artificial
tree. Never mind that as “tree fashion” goes, mine is a humble affair
of mismatched decorations with sentimental value, not a color-
coordinated glamour fir. Never mind that in about a month’s time I’ll
have to pack everything away in boxes again, where it will remain
untouched for the next 11 months. It’s all worthwhile because for my
family, nothing says, “Here comes Christmas!” quite like putting up
our tree.

Where do traditions like this come from? Before Christianity, people
were already bringing evergreen branches into their homes during
winter, to remind them of the coming spring. The decorated tree as we
know it seems to have originated some 400 years ago in Germany, when
Christians adopted it as a symbol of the everlasting life that Jesus
brings. Traditions develop as a way of remembering and retelling
important news or events. Christian traditions have developed
alongside—sometimes replacing, sometimes transforming—non-Christian
customs and rites. Whether we realize it or not, what we do at
Christmas nowadays is probably a unique blend of our culture and the
habits we’ve grown up with.

For someone in England, for instance, a traditional Christmas Day
dinner usually begins around mid-afternoon and includes roast turkey
or goose with stuffing, roast potatoes, brussels sprouts, hot tasty
gravy, mulled wine, and mince pies or Christmas pudding (are you
hungry yet?). In many parts of the United States, wintry scenes of
fresh snowfall are more picturesque than any greeting card, and
neighborhoods show off festive yard decor featuring reindeer or
snowmen. One of my West Coast friends bakes fudge and Christmas
cookies every year as gifts. In Australia, where December is a summer
month, people love Carols by Candlelight, an annual outdoor carol
concert that has taken place in major Australian cities across the
country for the past 70-plus years. The outdoors is so popular with
Aussies that my Sydney friend’s Christmas dinner is a seafood
barbecue—on the beach!

So, if there isn’t one definitive way of celebrating Christmas, what
makes it really Christmas for you? There was a time when I celebrated
the season like the world does, as just another festival with its own
stories and characters like Santa Claus and Rudolph the Red-Nosed
Reindeer, another occasion for gift-giving and partying, and another
excuse for warm fuzzy songs and decadent food.

But Christmas is so much more. The word itself is derived from
“Christ’s mass”, that is, the feast day commemorating the birth of the
Christ or Messiah, a title for God’s Chosen King. This title signifies
that God has given Jesus authority over everything, to bring back to
Him a world that doesn’t know Him or doesn’t accept His rule. The
result of turning our backs on God is separation from Him forever. But
God sent Jesus into the world to take that punishment in our place—a
baby born to die—so that we can live. At the heart of Christmas, then,
is the great news of friendship, a living relationship, with God
Himself! “Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance:
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners . . .” (1 Timothy
1:15).

The real message of Christmas isn’t in any of our traditions per se,
and so, merely observing traditions doesn’t make us Christian. No,
Christians are people who have a relationship with God through His Son
Jesus. Even wonderful Christian traditions like carol services, Advent
calendars and nativity plays can become empty shells of activity if we
fail to grow and delight in our friendship with God.

On the other hand, if what we do expresses a healthy relationship with
God, over time such practices can come to symbolize much more—that’s
when a meaningful tradition is born. if what we do expresses a healthy
relationship with God, over time such practices can come to symbolize
much more—that’s when a meaningful tradition is born. My Christmas
tree and the act of setting it up, for example, has come to represent
togetherness. Each handmade ornament came from an Advent devotion
activity, and the tree has graced countless gatherings where we shared
our food and our faith with friends and family.

Would it still be Christmas without the tree? You bet! In my heart
it’s Christmas all year round. But because I can choose how to
celebrate 25 December (or 7 January if you live in a country where the
church is Eastern Orthodox), I’ll pick my traditions with care, and
own them. What about you? What are your Christmas traditions? Which
ones best create the opportunities to remember, share Jesus with
others, and pass on the good news of joy?

