http://ymi.today/2016/04/the-prodigal-sons-father/

The Prodigal Son’s Father

Author: by Contributor

Written By Johanna Loh, originally for Walk The Same

The story of the prodigal son (Luke 15:11-31) is a familiar one. Its
three main characters could be the stars of a TV series: The rich
patriarch, his elder son, and his youngest—the wild child.

We know how it goes: The wild child takes off with his plentiful
inheritance to enjoy life. He leaves big brother behind to run the
family business with dad. After wasting all his money, the wild child
is left penniless and starving. He decides to make his way home, and
instead of receiving reproach, he receives a warm welcome from dad.
But big brother is left fuming, because his useless younger sibling
doesn’t get the thrashing he deserves.

As the eldest child, I must admit I had trouble connecting with the
story for a long time. My sympathies lay with the elder son, who had
worked so hard yet never seem to have received anything from his
father. There was no commendation, no fun parties held in his honor.
The younger child who wasted his inheritance, on the other hand, was
treated like a celebrity.

Then, one day, it hit me that the story was in fact, all about the
father. And two lessons, one about grace and the other about identity,
stood out like they never had before. First, grace is a gift given
without restraint. Second, we can only understand our true identity
upon knowing our heavenly Father.

The father in the story shows immense grace to his two sons. There was
no doubt that he cared for them. It must have caused him great grief
to let his younger son go, not knowing if he would ever see his child
again. He didn’t even protest, considering that requesting for one’s
inheritance at the time was as good as wishing one’s father dead. Yet,
the Bible tells of the father running to his son and being filled with
compassion for him when he returns.

The father had never given up on his younger son, but had waited every
day hoping for his return. He had every right to be angry, yet his
reaction was the complete opposite: He extended lavish grace instead.

Grace was given to the older son too. Although it seemed that he was
being unappreciated by his father, his father was clear in stating
that everything he had belonged to his son.

Aren’t we sometimes like the elder son? Maybe we already have
everything, but we don’t know how much we have. Maybe we already have
everything, but we don’t know how much we have. We are so focused on
slaving away for our Father, that we miss out on having a relationship
with Him. We forget how to receive and give grace, and end up becoming
bitter and legalistic. Insecurity and a skewed sense of self-worth
sets in because we think we have to achieve more to be more, and we
forget how much we are loved by our Heavenly Father. We need to
constantly remember the value God places on us as his treasured
children.

As for the prodigal son, we see how his father restored his position
and privileges when he returned. This shows us how our identities are
established in God our Father. Once He has called us His children,
nothing can separate us from Him. Even when we make bad choices and
mess up our lives, God is there to work through our mess with us. All
we need to do is ask. It is never too difficult or too late. Our
hearts just need to be open to Him. And just like the father in the
story, our Heavenly Father comes running to meet us with outstretched
arms. Joy is written in His smile when we humble ourselves and choose
to rely on Him completely.

It could take us a lifetime or more to fully understand just how much
God loves us and treasures us as His sons and daughters. Paul says in
Ephesians 3:18-19, “may [you] have power, together with all the
saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of
Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge – that you may
be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God.” May we all truly
know the extent of grace we have received through God’s love, and
allow that to define who we are.

This version has been edited by YMI.

