https://ymi.today/2018/01/an-open-letter-to-a-friend-gone-too-soon/

An Open Letter to A Friend Gone Too Soon

Author: by Agnes Lee

Dear Joshua,

I will never forget October 23, 2017. It seemed so surreal seeing you
lying motionless in the casket, dressed in your best. Tears swelled up
in my eyes as I remembered how you had been such a good friend to my
husband and me.

Your abrupt departure from this earth caught us completely off-guard.
Your mother shared with us the details of your sudden heart attack as
you were preparing to leave for work that fateful morning.

As I stood by your casket, I pictured you right there with us,
comforting us with your smiles as you stood together with Jesus—a
reminder that you were off to a far better place than before (one
where there would no longer be any tears or pain). That image brought
much solace to my aching heart.

It’s hard to express the pain we felt from losing you. We shared so
many good memories together and on some days it’s hard to believe that
you’re gone.

You were truly a beacon of light that shone brightly wherever you
went. I remember how my husband and I would quarrel over the most
minor details on our trips together (especially in our early days of
marriage) and how you would be the peacemaker. Your oft repeated
phrase, “Please don’t quarrel, it troubles me when you do” still rings
in my ears today and is something that I always remember whenever a
quarrel is about to erupt between my husband and me. You can’t imagine
how many unhappy quarrels you’ve saved us from! Your gentle nature and
desire for peace reminds me to walk in the same manner and exercise
the spirit of gentleness and self-control.

I know it was tough for you to have this perpetual heart condition. It
mustn’t have been easy having to consume medication on a daily basis
for the past 10 years (after having your heart bypass surgery). You
also had difficulty catching your breath after walking a certain
distance and would perspire profusely. Yet, I never once heard you
complain or blame God for this sickness you had.

Instead, whenever you were feeling down, you would choose to bow down
before God and worship Him. I witnessed firsthand how you lived each
day for God, leaning on Him for the strength that you needed and
trusting in His sovereignty over your circumstances.

You reminded me of Job in the Bible through the way you dealt with
your sickness and how you responded to God in the midst of the most
trying of circumstances.

I remember the times when you planned to go out with us but had to
stay at home because you were feeling unwell. Whenever we met, you
always had a smile on your face even if your heart condition caused
you great discomfort.

You always placed the interests of others before your own too, showing
consideration to others in the midst of your own pain and discomfort.
Remember the time we were on our way back to Singapore from our short
trip to Batam? We were in a hurry to catch the ferry and both of us
were lagging behind because we could not run as fast as the others.
You noticed that I was struggling with the bags of crackers I bought
and in the midst of trying to catch your breath—and the ferry—you
still stopped to take the load off me.

This small act of kindness left a deep impression on me and I can
never thank you enough for all that you have done for me.

As I recall your life, the words of Joshua 1:9 come to mind (I
remember that it’s your favorite verse too!): “Have I not commanded
you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid; do not be
discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go.”

You displayed such strength and courage even though your heart was
weak and your body was gradually breaking down. You knew that the Lord
was with you at all times and you never despaired of life, no matter
how tough it got.

Through the way you related with all around you (especially caring for
your elderly parents who have yet to come to know God), you have
inspired me to want to live a faith-filled life with God.

Thank you for leaving us with a legacy of your faith that stirs our
hearts towards our Creator.

You have fought the good fight, ran the race and kept the faith (2
Timothy 4:7).

Now it is my turn to run this race well, just as you have.

Farewell and till the day we meet again . . .



Your friend,

Agnes.



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



