http://ymi.today/2015/09/from-small-improvements-to-big-changes/

Don’t take Small Improvements for Granted

Author: by Contributor

Written By J-Wood, West Indies

We often yearn for big changes in our lives, but often, it’s only
possible to accomplish these by making one small improvement at a
time.

For example, a musician masters his instrument by practising every
day, making small improvements to his technique. A house owner can
gradually transform his home by making small changes, such as hanging
decorations on a bare wall, replacing old furniture, or changing the
layout of a room. Small improvements accumulate over time, resulting
in a big change.

I experienced this most powerfully myself, after I went through a
major surgery in December 2014.

My recovery was projected to take six to eight weeks, during which I
was told to refrain from regular activities such as driving a car,
working out at the gym, lifting heavy boxes, and so on.

Driving a car? Working out at the gym? Forget all of that! My body was
fragile and weak. I was completely powerless. For the first four
weeks, I couldn’t even get out of bed without my parents’ help. Many
people who visited me while I was bedridden in hospital asked, “How
are you feeling?” While I appreciated their concern, I wish they had
asked me something else instead. I was clearly not feeling well at
all. I was hoping that people would ask, “What progress did you make
today?”

Despite my initial weakness, I made progress in small but steady steps
every day. By the sixth week, I no longer had any difficulty getting
out of bed on my own.

Thanks to this experience, I learned never to take small improvements
for granted again.

In 1 Kings 19, we read the story of Elijah fleeing from Jezebel and
Ahab after his showdown with the prophets of Baal at Mount Carmel (1
Kings 18). Driven into the wilderness, Elijah lost all hope, to the
point that he asked God to take his life (1 Kings 19:4). But God
restored Elijah’s faith gradually, through small steps. At first, He
sent the prophet food and drink, allowing him to regain his strength.
Sometime later, another angel came and encouraged him before he
departed to Mount Horeb. There, the Lord appeared to Elijah, not
through the great wind, earthquake or fire that shook the mountain,
but through a “gentle whisper” that finally convinced Elijah to get
back to work.

Often, we don’t know what the future holds. As Christians, however, we
can be assured that God will guide us along the journey. We can also
trust that He’s ready, willing and able to build our faith through
both big and small things. Let us celebrate the small improvements in
our lives, just as we celebrate the big changes. Praise His Name!

