https://ymi.today/2017/12/what-do-we-do-now-with-all-those-christmas-
gifts/

What Do We Do Now With All Those Christmas Gifts?

Author: by Vania Tan

Can you believe it? Christmas Day has come and gone—just like that.

Over the last month or possibly just this past week, you probably
spent a great deal of time writing Christmas cards—purchased from a
store or handmade with love—and choosing the ideal gift. The latter is
an art in itself. Sometimes, it might even feel like you’re treading
through a minefield—getting the wrong gift is akin to setting an
explosive off.

You thought long and hard about what to buy for your friends and
family, hoping that they would love what you got them. After getting
the gifts, you wrapped them up in the fanciest or cheesiest wrapping
paper you could find and topped them all off with a ribbon and
possibly a beautifully calligraphed tag (that you spent hours trying
to master).

Next comes the gift exchange and finally, the time to open the
presents you’ve received. You approach with the subtle hope that as
much thought and love had been poured into them just as you did for
the gifts you prepared. Whether you are a ripper or a peeler, you
finally get to the moment of truth—the moment you find out if you like
what you see.

So . . . are you happy with all the Christmas gifts you have received?

Well, there are bound to be some presents we absolutely love and some
others we’re a little confused by (to put it mildly). Based on what
I’ve observed from all my Christmas experiences, here are the three
most common ways Christmas gifts are dealt with. I’m curious to know
what’s yours.



If you’ve received something that you like and are able to use, my
heartiest congratulations. It could be that new lip tint that is
trending this season, or that new book that you’ve had your eye on, or
that latest gadget that everyone has been dying to get their hands on.
But let’s be honest. Even those have a shelf life. Give it a couple of
weeks and soon our attention will be drawn to something else.

Nothing seems to truly satisfy no matter how useful it is, does it?



These are the gifts that befuddle us and make us wonder why anyone
would spend money to get them or whether any thought has been put into
them. You know what I’m talking about—those liquor chocolates, tacky
socks, and bath bombs etc. They are usually left where we last placed
them and tucked in a corner till the next spring-cleaning. Out of
sight and out of mind. I have seen this happen too often in my own
home. These gifts are tricky to handle and often leave us helpless
because it seems rude to throw them away and yet we have no use for
them.

Is the value of the gift determined by the giver or the recipient?



Yes, you read that right. Some of us are guilty of this (the more
practical lot). The unwanted gifts are nicely rewrapped and placed in
someone else’s hands the following Christmas. Or we might donate them
to the local thrift store to appease our conscience, believing that at
least it will go towards a good cause.

Should we ever give given gifts away?





Whichever option we identify with, if we are honest with ourselves,
there can never be a gift on earth that can truly satisfy (what with
our endless material wants and earthly desires).

However, we know that there is a gift from above (James 1:17) that
truly satisfies and never disappoints. It is an indescribable gift (2
Corinthians 9:15) that we can unwrap and unpack over and over again
for the rest of our lives—revealing more truths and wonders each time
we do so.

It is a timeless gift that never goes out of style. It is original and
uniquely ours—written with our names on the gift tags. A gift that
keeps our interest piqued at all times and that we desperately need,
not just want.

And that gift is Jesus, my friends.

He’s the perfect and irreplaceable gift that must be received and
shared.

If you have yet to receive this gift, will you open your hearts to
receive it today? If you’ve yet to share this gift, will you do so
even though Christmas is over?



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



