http://ymi.today/2015/06/why-im-mourning-for-the-sabah-quake-victims/

Why I’m Mourning for the Sabah Quake Victims

Author: by Amy Ji

The reports on the victims of the recent Sabah earthquake have been
for me, most horrifying to read. As the names of the bodies identified
were listed, I realized that I had trained some of these students and
had even worked with the teacher who had lost his life, just last
year. Up till now, I’m still trying to wrap my head around the deaths
of children; especially children whom I’ve had close contact with,
children who shared their lives and aspirations with me with such
excitement.

Not wanting to be overwhelmed by the flurry of updates on social
media, I turned to the Bible for what it had to say about children. Do
you know that in the NIV (2011) version, there are 459 mentions of the
word “children”? Also noteworthy is that many of God’s life-changing
promises were made to individuals who were considered merely children
to the world. These included key Bible characters such as David, who
was anointed king over Israel as a young boy and Samuel, who was
called to be a prophet in his childhood. There were also those God
called even before they were born, like Jeremiah and John the Baptist.
In the New Testament, we also see Jesus involving a young boy (and his
lunch) in one of the biggest feeding miracles ever! Clearly, God
values young lives and children are precious to Him.

While some might say that the quake was an unavoidable natural
disaster, to see seven young lives snuffed out just like that is a
devastating experience to families, schools and practically, the
entire nation. And if we look at the larger reality, we see the loss
of young lives every day through other means including atrocities like
child slavery, child prostitution as well as poor living conditions,
which could lead to severe malnutrition, AIDS and even infant
mortality.

Yet, as we mourn and feel the heartbreak of their loss, let’s be
comforted by the good that is coming out of this tragic episode that
we can learn from and lend our support to. Yet, as we mourn and feel
the heartbreak of their loss, let’s be comforted by the good that is
coming out of this tragic episode that we can learn from and lend our
support to. As youth pen their condolences to the families of the
casualties, I have been heartened to see many of them being personally
challenged to do something for children in their own ways. I read a
post of a 17-year-old student who appealed to her readers to stop the
injustice of children all over Southeast Asia, asking adults to turn
their mourning into positive action. In another dedication, a group of
college students is starting a foundation to support students who are
too poor to afford adventure learning programs.

As for believers, may we pray for the children and avail ourselves to
reach out to them. Jesus himself taught us to let the little children
come to Him for theirs is the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 19:14). Let’s
consider how we can point them to the Lord. Some questions that may be
worth considering are: Who are the children around us whom we can
reach out too? Are our churches lacking in Sunday school helpers or
children outreach befrienders? How can we be God’s ministers to the
children whom He loves?

EDITOR’S NOTE: Share your thoughts in the comment section!



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



