http://ymi.today/2017/10/my-friend-left-the-church-because-of-me/

My Friend Left the Church Because of Me

Author: by Constance Goh

“I need a break from church and from y’all to think about what
happened,” a good friend wrote in a text message to me one day. And
with that one message, Jasmine* never returned to my church again.

It all started during a sleepover three of us had at Jasmine’s place.
Jasmine, Alexis* and I were talking late into the night and I told an
insensitive joke—which I can no longer remember—which deeply offended
Jasmine. Alexis laughed and the both of us thought nothing about it
after that.

However, that one seemingly innocent remark affected Jasmine; she
stopped talking to us and distanced herself from us after that
episode.

Confused, we sent her text messages and even visited her at her house
with a cake to cajole her, but to no avail. Our confusion turned to
frustration when she started ignoring our other friends who were not
involved in the conflict.

That’s when Alexis and I decided to get together with another good
friend, Adrienne*, to address the situation. But instead of trying to
understand the situation from Jasmine’s perspective, we spurred each
other on in our unloving thoughts and harsh judgment towards her. We
even thought about how to craft the most strongly-worded passive-
aggressive text messages to her. Finally, one evening, Alexis and I
received that sobering text message from her.

Jasmine was so hurt by what we had said, that she left the church.
Although we did not intend this to happen, I have to admit that we
were partly relieved that we didn’t have to face her (or the awkward
situation) again.

However, while we had seemingly won the battle against her, we had
lost the war against our sinful selves.

When someone leaves the church because of a conflict, it’s easy to
sweep the entire thing under the carpet and pretend nothing ever
happened. After all, who wants to humble themselves to admit they were
wrong and apologize?

However, God repeatedly refers to the Church as the Body of Christ (1
Corinthians 12:27, Ephesians 4:12) and gives us these instructions
when it comes to relating with one another:



The church is the Body of Christ and each one of us is a member who
plays a specific role in the family of God. In Ephesians 4, the
apostle Paul urges us to live a life worthy of our calling by being
humble, gentle, and patient. Unity does not start from a group or from
others—it has to start from ourselves.

This means learning to value others’ interests above our own
(Philippians 2:3-4), not being harsh when a fellow brother or sister
has done wrong but showing them kindness instead, and showing patience
and grace towards the faults of another.

Ultimately, it is about recognizing the other party as a brother or
sister in Christ and doing our part in ministry so that we can grow
together in maturity (Ephesians 4:13).



The apostle Paul tells us that undergirding all these is love
(Ephesians 4:2). Even though I did not harbor any malicious intent
towards Jasmine when I made that comment, my lack of sensitivity
towards her displayed my lack of love. And the issue escalated because
my friends and I did not consider her feelings and were unloving
towards her.

Through this episode, I learned that loving others is not simply a
fuzzy-wuzzy feeling but a commandment and a conscious choice we have
to make. If we profess to love God, we have to learn to love our
neighbor as ourselves (Mark 12:31)—no matter how difficult or
unlovable the person is.

When it comes to those whom I find difficult to love, I remind myself
that God chose to love me even though I’m not that lovable myself. If
God can choose to love someone like me, I too can choose to love my
friend and channel the same undeserving love I have received to my
friend (1 John 4:19). If God can choose to love someone like me, I too
can choose to love my friend and channel the same undeserving love I
have received to my friend (1 John 4:19).



God showed His love for us by dying on the cross for us while we were
still sinners (Romans 5:8). When we understand the extent of God’s
love for us, we are then able to forgive others.

Forgiveness is a deliberate act on our part. It is not something that
is easy, but because Christ has forgiven us, we can forgive one
another (Ephesians 4:32). We are called to forgive each other not just
once or twice, but seventy times seven times (Matthew 18:21-22) and to
seek reconciliation.

In my case, we didn’t do this until our youth mentor forced us to sit
down and talk. He reminded us that when we are gathered, God is with
us (Matthew 18:20). As we took turns to explain why we were upset with
each other, God worked in my heart to apologize to and to forgive
Jasmine. The session helped us to understand the situation from each
other’s perspective and forgive each other.



Although Jasmine has left my church, I’m thankful that all of us have
since forgiven each other and are reconciled. Today, she goes to
another church but all of us still hang out together regularly.

Through this episode, I have come to realize that harmony and unity in
the church is difficult to build when all of us are so vastly
different and terribly sinful. Our relationships will never be perfect
and we will always offend or hurt others. But God used this episode to
reveal my ugly heart to me and remind me that harmony in the church is
something that all of us have to work on and cannot take for granted.

Reconciliation and humility requires supernatural strength and effort,
which we can only achieve through God’s strength. However, if we
remember that we have God’s love to bind all of us together, we can be
the Body of Christ God longs to see.

*All names have been changed.



Constance is an avid reader and a Milo addict. If she is not found
with a book, she is probably watching Korean dramas or jamming on her
guitar to some Coldplay tunes. She enjoys the company of children and
hopes to work among them in the future. As someone who believes that
hardship on this earth is nothing compared to the future glory in
heaven, she takes pride in being able to work hard for God.



