http://ymi.today/2016/03/what-is-the-mark-of-a-great-man/

What is the Mark of A Great Man?

Author: by YMI

Written by Eudora Chuah, Singapore

Exactly a year ago, my country lost a remarkable man. Mr Lee Kuan Yew,
Singapore’s founding prime minister, passed away at the age of 91 on
23 March, 2015, after battling severe pneumonia. He had led the
country to independence in 1965 and played a key role in building it
up into what it is today.

Here was a man of great foresight and leadership. He had lived and
breathed Singapore, served his nation with his whole life, and had the
unwavering courage to act on his convictions. Few can deny the many
contributions he made to the country.

His death drew an outpouring of grief among Singaporeans, both young
and old. I was one of the one million or so people who queued for many
hours (some even overnight) at the Parliament House to pay our
respects to the man who shaped modern Singapore. On the day of his
state funeral, more than 100,000 people lined the route of his funeral
cortege to bid a final farewell.

A year since, Mr Lee remains in people’s minds and hearts. Three
remembrance sites have been set up and more than a hundred events have
been organized across Singapore to commemorate the first anniversary
of his death—a fitting response indeed for a man who had given up his
life for his nation.

As I reflected on Mr Lee’s legacy, someone much closer to my heart
came to mind. This man did not just impact the lives of his own
people, but the entire human race. And in two days’ time, Christians
all over the world will be commemorating what he has done.

This person is none other than Jesus Christ, God’s own Son, who
suffered a humiliating and tortuous death on a cross for our sins. God
raised Him from the dead three days later, and because of what Jesus
did, we now have the privilege of being able to enjoy a personal
relationship with God. Jesus’ life and death, which was marked by
love, humility, and obedience to God, transformed the lives of people
not just in His day, but all throughout history—from religious bigots
to hardcore criminals.

To such a man, whose life and death changes lives in so great a
manner, it would be fitting to ascribe Him the greatest adulation and
honor. But have we done it?

I’d be the first to admit the disparity between my response to the
death of my country’s founder, and that to my life’s founder. Would I
be as eager, I wonder, to tell others about the gospel and what Jesus
did as I was in sharing with others about what Mr Lee did for
Singapore? Sure, I could argue that Mr Lee’s passing is still fresh in
my mind whereas Jesus’ death happened so long ago. But it doesn’t
change the fact: If I can bestow so much respect on a mortal man,
shouldn’t I show much more honor and reverence for the God who loves
me so unconditionally and showed this through dying for me (John
3:16-17)? If I can bestow so much respect on a mortal man, shouldn’t I
show much more honor and reverence for the God who loves me so
unconditionally and showed this through dying for me (John 3:16-17)?

I recognize that it is a process of learning, and I am thankful that
God guides my heart to grow in love for Jesus and His word, a little
more every day.

This Good Friday, may we all be encouraged to respond with our all—our
hearts, our hands, and our voices—to Jesus, the one who changed our
lives for eternity.

Photo credit: chooyutshing via Foter.com / CC BY-NC-SA

