http://ymi.today/2015/11/why-doesnt-my-friend-believe-in-god/

Why Doesn’t My Friend Believe in God?

Author: by Contributor

For the longest time, a good friend of mine has been seeking the truth
and trying to make sense of life. And for many years, I have been
trying to introduce Christ to him. I believe that all his questions
about life can be answered. And I believe that in Christ, he will find
the happiness and meaning that he has been looking for.

But I have never been able to convince him of his need for a Savior.

My friend’s situation got me thinking about what people think about
Christianity, why they may not agree with my faith, and why they may
not want to accept God.

Some of them might think Christians are foolish, blind or
impressionable. They might think the Bible teaches us to be ignorant
and foolish, because it calls the wisdom of this world “foolishness”
in God’s sight (1 Corinthians 3:18-20), and tells us to have faith in
what we cannot see (Hebrews 11:1).

So what can we do? As Christians, we believe that it is only by
believing in Jesus that we will not perish but have eternal life (John
3:16). And we want to share this truth with others, so that they too
might receive this wonderful gift of salvation.

Should we try to defend our faith vigorously against such criticism?
Or should we argue our way and try to convince our friends of the
truth? Perhaps we should instead consider the wisdom from 2
Corinthians 4:3-4 before making a response:

“And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are
perishing. In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds
of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.”

The obstacles that a non-Christian faces in coming to believe in
Christ are not merely intellectual, but also spiritual—“the god of
this world” blinds the minds of unbelievers. So we may persuade, we
may appeal, but we can’t force a person to come to faith.

That does not mean that we should stop sharing the gospel; the Bible
makes it clear that we should be a witness to Jesus. At the same time,
we should also continue to live according to God’s Word, for our lives
serve as clear, open statements about the truth, and our conduct may
prompt others to ask us about it. That’s when we can share our faith
with them—with gentleness and respect (1 Peter 3:15).

But let’s take heart and remember that at the end of the day, only God
can change men’s hearts and bring such sinful creations like us to
himself. We can share the gospel and tell others about our faith, and
leave the rest to Him. After all, we too had not decided to follow
Jesus on our own accord; we had come to God with His help and because
of His grace.

Indeed, our whole Christian journey is one of grace—from the start
(when we first believed) to the end (when we will join Christ in
eternal life). It was by grace that our eyes were opened—not by us,
but by the One who created us. We have been saved by grace and grace
alone.

And so I will continue to pray that my best friend and his family will
come to Christ. For just as I am saved by grace, I know that one day,
they too will be saved by God’s grace.

