http://ymi.today/2017/08/what-5-bible-couples-teach-us-about-romance/

Couples in the Bible: What 5 Bible Couples Teach Us About Romance

Author: by YMI

Editor’s note: The Bible can offer us wisdom on many different topics
and in many different ways. Looking at couples in the bible can be a
great way to learn about a biblical approach to relationships. Below
are some biblical couples that may impact your view of relationships.

Written By M. Tiong, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

I once thought that it was fine to start a romantic relationship as
long as it felt right; I did not realize that I ought to take time to
pray to God about it first. I once thought that it was time to break
up when feelings faded; I did not realize that relationships needed to
be nurtured. I once thought that I would be rational in romance; I did
not realize that I would end up hating the other person badly and
nursing my bitterness when the person left.

From puppy love in school to dating in college to being single after
graduation, I have been through the whole roller coaster of emotions.
It reached a point when I felt as though God no longer loved me. How
come other people could start a relationship and watch it blossom and
bear fruit, whereas I kept floundering? And why did I end up not only
hurting myself, but hurting others as well even though I also dated
with marriage in mind?

It was only later on, that I realized that I had been looking at
relationships through my own lens. When things felt right, I would
immediately launch into a relationship, assuming such feelings came
from the “Holy Spirit”. Likewise, when problematic situations wore me
out both physically and emotionally, I would assume that these were
signs to break up, and as a result, let go of my relationships.

Movies, TV shows, online dating games, etc., all tell us to rely on
our own feelings. We are told to chase after the romantic, the happy,
and the epic. When these feelings are gone, dating and marriage should
come to an end as well. But is that true? What view of romantic
relationships does the Bible prescribe?

A thought came to my mind one day: Why not learn from godly couples in
the Bible to find out God’s thinking?

Let me share what I have learned from five couples in the Bible.

Rebekah was from the same tribe as Abraham. She was selected by
Abraham’s servant as a bride for Isaac (Abraham’s son) after the
servant sought the Lord in prayer. Here I see a very important
principle for relationships: choose a spouse from among God’s people.
This choice is not random, nor should it be based on feelings—it
should be the result of faithful prayer. If we get involved with
unbelievers, we will have to deal with the differences in beliefs and
values, or worse, we might follow the other person’s religious
traditions and abandon God and His teaching.

The second thing I learned from their relationship is this: love is a
decision. Although Isaac and Rebekah had not met each other before
getting married, they were able to love each other their entire lives.
In that time, it was not uncommon for men to have multiple wives, yet
Isaac chose to spend his entire life with Rebekah alone. Their
relationship shows us that when you decide to love a person and a holy
covenant has been made, we can rely on God to keep us going and loving
each other to the end even when difficulties arise in the marriage.



Ruth was a foreigner as well as a widow. But she loved Naomi, her
mother-in-law. She later followed Naomi’s advice and hinted her
intentions to Boaz, and, as we all know, it was a happy ending for
Boaz, Ruth, and Naomi. From this story, I learned that God does not
look down on anyone whatever their background may be. What He cares
about is our hearts. Ruth chose to believe in God―the same God her
mother-in-law believed. She was also obedient to this beloved elder,
and so she was blessed in the end, and even named in Jesus’ genealogy.

I used to think that only those who married their first
boyfriend/girlfriend had relationships blessed by God. But it is not
so. God accepts us no matter what our pasts are. Interestingly, I also
saw from Ruth and Boaz’s marriage that women do not have to wait for
men to make the first move in a relationship. Sometimes, a woman can
give timely and appropriate hints to “less observant” men. Of course,
this is on the condition that any action taken is in accordance with
God’s will. As for men, they should think things through and ask older
Christians for advice before making a move.



When Mary became pregnant with Jesus through the Holy Spirit, Joseph
wanted to avoid divorcing her publicly so as to protect her name and
her life. In that patriarchal era, the engaged man had the right to
publicly divorce his fiancée, and the woman would be stoned to death
for committing adultery. But Joseph did not do so because he loved
Mary and feared God. Mary was also a God-fearing woman, and so
willingly accepted the risks that came with her pregnancy.

Loving someone is proven by action. Joseph proved his love for Mary by
respecting, protecting and marrying her. When evil men came after them
to kill baby Jesus, they supported each other the entire way. This is
one God-fearing couple who shared in both the good and bad times for
the sake of God. To share the same faith as our spouse, and to be
willing to commit to Christ and to each other, is a beautiful thing.



Although this biblical couple is not as well-known as the others we’ve
looked at so far, I really admire their commitment to God in the New
Testament. Though they were busy with work, they always warmly
welcomed God’s servants Paul and Apollos (Acts 18). They opened up
their home as a meeting place (1 Corinthians 16) and actively pursued
any opportunity to add to God’s kingdom.

God not only wants families to be saved, but also to serve. Opening up
one’s home not only incurs extra financial costs, but also a lot of
time and energy. Here, we see an example of active ministry by lay
people: “Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your
soul and with all your mind” (Matthew 22:37), and “but as for me and
my household, we will serve the Lord” (Joshua 24:15).

Also, two are better than one. In addition to sharing the ups and
downs of life, a couple can pray for each other, serve God, and
minister to people together. This is a beautiful picture. When I
consider the families I know where one spouse is passionate about
ministry but the other is not, I am all the more convinced of the
importance of praying for a like-minded future spouse. Only when two
people are of a similar maturity and mind, can they build a family
with Christ at the head.



According to Luke 1, Zechariah and Elizabeth served the Lord
faithfully despite their old age. I especially remember the part where
Zechariah was serving as a priest when God’s messenger appeared to
him, telling him that his prayer had been answered and that God would
give him a son. This reminded me that God is always listening to our
prayers, but whether or not those prayers are answered depends on
God’s will.

Although we also see the weaknesses of Zechariah and
Elizabeth―Zechariah was temporarily mute because of his lack of faith,
and Elizabeth was initially afraid to tell people about her
pregnancy―yet this did not hinder God from using them to accomplish
His plans. When the child was born, they obeyed God and named him
John. And after praying for so many years for their own child,
Zechariah and Elizabeth were willing to give him up to God’s work, and
to obey God in naming their child. Such surrender is something I need
to learn.

These five couples in the bible all have their own weaknesses, yet
they share one thing in common: both partners feared and obeyed God.
The example of Aquila and Priscilla especially reminded me that I must
serve the Lord at any time in any place.

The Bible has many other examples that can teach us about
relationships. The five biblical couples above are only a handful, but
these are the ones that have touched me deeply. Through studying them,
I am better able to face the insecurities caused by my past
relationships. These couples also inspire me to build a proper, God-
pleasing view of relationship, and help me re-focus on God Himself. I
hope that all I have learned about relationships can also help bring
light to you in your own relationships.

