http://ymi.today/2017/06/why-i-went-on-a-social-media-fast/

Why I Went on a Social Media Fast

Author: by Contributor

Written by Phyllis J.en, Singapore

About two years ago, I decided to delete or deactivate most of my
social media accounts for a while. Things remained that way for the
next six to nine months.

It took much thinking and hesitation before I was able to bring myself
to do it. “Can I live without it?” “How do I contact people?” “How
will people take it?” After all, social media had become a big part of
my life.

But there were two main reasons that propelled me to do so. First, I
wanted to go offline to reconnect with people face to face. Social
media had affected the way I treated and viewed people. I wasn’t being
loving or intentional in my relationships with people. During meal
times, I would rather text or scroll through my social media newsfeeds
than talk to people and get to know them personally. I found their
timelines and posts more interesting than their actual persons.

Secondly, and more importantly, I realized that social media had
become an idol in my life. Whenever I did my daily devotion, I would
keep glancing at my phone, unable to concentrate on what I was reading
or writing. And whenever my phone alerted me with notifications, I
would put the Bible aside to check them. It was scary—I couldn’t seem
to be able to restrain myself: I had to check my phone immediately. I
felt like I had to reply immediately even when it wasn’t about
something urgent.

In fact, it was an incident of this nature that was the straw that
broke the camel’s back. One day, I got really angry when a friend I
messaged did not reply me quickly enough. When I cooled down and
reflected on my reaction, I realized that it was irrational and showed
how emotionally dependent I had become on social media.

But I didn’t delete or deactivate my apps all at once. What I did was
to delete apps that didn’t really matter to me first. Snapchat was the
first to go. Next was Instagram, followed by Facebook. The last to be
deleted was WhatsApp, which I was the most reliant on, as I used it
the most often to contact my friends and disseminate information—I was
a subject representative in school and had convey information from my
teacher to the rest of the class.

Initially when I “lost” everything but WhatsApp, the loss didn’t feel
so apparent. It was only when my WhatsApp was gone that I felt the
impact fully. Deleting WhatsApp was the most painful and difficult
thing to do, partly due to my dependence on it, and partly due to how
people reacted when I told them about my plans.

“Are you crazy?” some said. “That’s so drastic!” “Why must you be so
extreme? Don’t you know that’s going to cause a lot of inconvenience
to people around you when they want to contact and connect with you?”

But a few affirmed my decision, calling it a “wise” one.

I was hurt by some of the comments. But being the stubborn person I
was, I decided to carry on with it. What I wasn’t prepared for,
however, was how lost and empty I felt. The sudden silence and
disconnect was disconcerting. I didn’t know what to do. I found myself
checking my phone often—even though I knew that there would be no
messages. I even contemplated downloading the app again. I was more
addicted to it than I thought.

Although being offline changed my lifestyle a lot, it did not
automatically change my mindset. Although being offline changed my
lifestyle a lot, it did not automatically change my mindset. The
vacuum created by the loss of social media was filled by other forms
of entertainment. K-drama, anyone? I watched so much K-drama that I
got tired of it. Then, slowly, I started to spend time reading the
Bible and praying. And that’s when I came to the realization that only
God can satisfy. None of the other things could fill the emptiness in
me.

Deleting my apps also made me realize how much time and energy I had
been wasting. With the amount of energy and time spent on social
media, I could have been doing more important things such as
evangelism, meeting, and praying for others. Going offline made me
more intentional about the relationships around me, and improved my
spiritual walk. It made me realize that I had not been fixing my eyes
on God’s kingdom.

The other thing I learned was about my over-dependence on people.
Prior to the “loss”, I would turn to my friends and family for help
and advice every time I faced a crisis—and not the Bible. As for
prayer, it was usually an afterthought. Don’t get me wrong, turning to
friends and family for advice is not a bad thing. They just shouldn’t
be the first people we turn to.

So I am really thankful that through this social media fast, God
helped me learn how to depend and listen more to Him.

Although I’ve since reactivated my Facebook account and reinstalled
WhatsApp, these platforms don’t appeal to me as much as they used to.
In fact, I send mostly text messages to my friends; WhatsApp is
reserved for those friends who I know have limited number of text
messages they can send out every month.

But even though the temptation is not as strong these days, addiction
in any form will always be an ongoing struggle. What I find very
helpful is to keep praying and asking God for wisdom and depending on
Him daily. Also, having an accountability partner helps!

