http://ymi.today/2015/08/a-letter-from-my-father/

A Letter From My Father

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charlotte Diana, Indonesia

On one of my free days, I decided to clear some of the drawers in my
room. As I was sorting through some old letters in one of my drawers,
I stumbled on a letter I had not seen in a long while and had clean
forgotten about. It was a letter my father had written to me almost 10
years ago.

Despite the length of time that had passed, tears welled up in my eyes
as I read through the content of the letter.

10 January 2006

My daughter,

Even before you made your entrance into this world, you managed to
make us anxious. None of that anxiety has been forgotten today. It was
a beautiful anxiety which stemmed from our love for you.

My daughter, being a parent is a honorable thing. Read the history of
the great men in the bible, and you’d discover that the best advice
was given by a parent to his child. Nevertheless, know that being a
parent is hard work. We are tasked with the responsibility to provide
you a home, teach you right values and care for your physical needs.
Yet, your presence is one of the loveliest and the proudest things to
us.

My daughter, we kissed and embraced you the moment you came into this
world. You were the fruit of my love to your mother, the proof that
your mother and I are no longer separated by anyone or anything. But
as time went by, we learned that you had a mind of your own. You are
not mine, nor your mother’s. You are here not because of my love and
your mother’s love. You are here because of the Lord. We do not have
the right to demand your devotion because it belongs solely to God.

Since that time, all we focused on was to bring you closer to your
master. It was our hope that you would always try to fulfill your
master’s desires, do everything for Him—not for me or your mother. Our
goal was not to make you someone others would admire, but someone
loved by God.

My daughter, our most difficult task as parents is being a role model
to you of what it means to be close to God. Our desires must first be
in accordance with God’s wishes, so that we can show you how to go
about this journey. When you complain of tiredness, we are here to
strengthen you. We must run with perseverance and with the intention
to win the race of life.

One day, you will walk alone when God declares that our task on this
world is complete. We hope that all the things you have learned will
be enough to sustain you in your journey through life with God.

Finally, my daughter, when all of us come face to face with God, it is
our prayer that we will be reunited in heaven. Your presence there
will bring us much joy. It means that we as parents have succeeded in
our task to return you to your master.

Much love, Dad

Reading this letter challenged me to live as God’s child and to grow
in my knowledge and faith in Him every day. No doubt there will be
times when I will struggle to show my respect to them, but I know that
deep down, they love and care for me, and I want to do likewise.

After all, as someone has said before, FAMILY means Father And Mother,
I Love You.

