http://ymi.today/2016/09/the-day-i-was-saved-by-unbelievers/

The Day I Was Saved by Unbelievers

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charles Christian, Indonesia

Eighteen years ago, my carefree life turned into a living hell
overnight.

It was May 1998, and riots broke out in my city, Jakarta in Indonesia.
They were triggered by economic problems including food shortages and
mass unemployment. Native Indonesians were provoked to commit barbaric
acts against Chinese Indonesians, which included looting and burning
their properties.

As a Chinese Christian, I am part of an ethnic as well as religious
minority in my country. Ethnic Chinese make up only 1.2 percent of the
population in Indonesia, which has the largest Muslim population in
the world.

It was estimated that more than 1,200 people died in the riots, and
thousands of shops and houses were burned to the ground. At least 168
rape cases were reported, and material damage was valued at more than
Rp 3.1 trillion (approximately US$236 million).

I was in primary school at the time. It was near our final-year
examinations, but the situation forced schools to close. We stayed
indoors, but after hearing that the chaos was escalating and buildings
and residential compounds were being set on fire, my family decided to
get out of town. We felt it would be safer than staying at home.

We were so wrong.

That day, seven of us were packed into my father’s car—my parents, my
brother and I, two maids and our chauffeur. Just before we set off,
however, we suddenly remembered that our neighbor’s maid was alone at
home. Although she was a native Indonesian and a Muslim, we were also
worried for her safety. As my neighbor was rarely at home, her maid
was often home alone. We asked if she wanted to join us, and she
readily accepted. She hopped into the car and sat in the last row of
seats next to my father, who was very afraid that his looks would give
away his ethnicity. And off we went.

We decided to use the highway, hoping that it would provide the
fastest way out of town. But it turned out to be a big mistake. Things
started to look suspicious when we realized that there was no one at
the toll gate to collect the fee. Around us, people were walking all
over the highway. We had never seen this happen before. My mother
decided to throw some cash onto the road, hoping that they would go
after the money and leave us alone. For some time, our car was able to
inch forward—but not for long. Soon, people started to gather around
our car and block us from moving forward. We were trapped!

Horrified, we watched as they stopped our car and started to pull out
the wiper blades and wing mirrors. Horrified, we watched as they
stopped our car and started to pull out the wiper blades and wing
mirrors. They also started small fires around our car. Having heard
many cases in which cars were burned down and passengers killed or
raped, we were gripped with fear. My father tried to hide himself from
view, but to no avail.

The crowds opened the car’s back door and saw my father and my
neighbor’s maid, who started crying hysterically. They told my father
to get out. I believed that they were going to torture my father or
kill him; I didn’t know what to do other than pray. My father was
immobilized with fear, so they started dragging him out of the car.

Just then, my neighbor’s maid stopped them and started pleading with
them. “Son, remember Allah . . . What you’re doing is not right.
Remember Allah, Son . . .” Her pleas proved effective, as the crowds
started to move away. Eventually, they let our car through. We had
thought we were saving our neighbor’s maid, but it was she who saved
us!

As I think back on this episode, I’m reminded of Lot’s story in
Genesis 19:1-29. While he thought that he had needed to save the two
angels from the wicked people in Sodom, it was those angels who
eventually saved him.

After barely escaping the scene, we faced another problem. The sky had
become darker, and we knew that it was too risky to return home. We
were also afraid to continue the journey, as we didn’t know whom else
we would encounter along the way.

Driving on, we reached a residential area of native Indonesians. By
God’s grace, we found a Muslim family who not only warmly welcomed us
to stay in their home, but also prepared food and blankets for us. The
next morning, they sent us to my grandma’s home at a safer location.

The following morning, I was the first to wake up. A song was playing
in another room. Curious, I walked into the room and found that the TV
was on, but nobody was watching it. To my surprise, the song playing
was the hymn, “Along the Road”. These were the lyrics:

Along the road of life I have a friend divine who walks with me and
gently leads the way He gives me joy and makes the darkest night to
shine It is my Lord who won my heart one day

I do not mind the rough and winding pathway, O’er mountain steep, thru
valleys dark and cold, It is enough to know He travels by my side
Along the road that leads to streets of gold

I was deeply touched by the lyrics. While I didn’t know what made me
wake up early that day, or why the TV was switched on, or why that
song was broadcasted at the time, I knew one thing: God was telling me
that He was my friend divine. He had been with me and protected me
from every harm and danger every step of the way.

A few days later, we returned home. Thankfully, our home was intact.
And by God’s grace (and to my surprise), I didn’t feel any fear at
all. The riots subsequently died down and life in Jakarta returned to
a semblance of normalcy.

Since then, I’ve become more respectful towards others who are
different, having experienced the kindness of strangers (and
neighbors) in my life. But the biggest lesson I’ve learned from that
difficult moment is about how God had, and is always protecting and
providing for me.

Truly, it is enough to know that He travels by our side!

