http://ymi.today/2016/01/when-i-was-angry-with-god/

When I was Angry with God

Author: by Contributor

Written By Charlotte Diana, Indonesia

Have you ever been angry with God because of an illness, a physical
disability, poverty, or family problems? I have.

Several years ago, I felt some pain in my back, but didn’t think of
going to see a doctor. But it got increasingly worse, and one day, I
decided to have it checked by a specialist. He did an X-ray, then told
me the bad news: I had scoliosis, a curvature of the spine.

Living with this medical condition is tough. I have to change my
living practices, such as sleeping on a hard mattress and sitting
upright at all times, as well as undergo physiotherapy to straighten
my backbone. Sometimes, however, I forget to sit up straight, and the
pain is so bad that I can hardly bear it. Perhaps I was born with it,
or had made it worse by having a bad posture when I was young.

The condition didn’t just affect me physically, but psychologically as
well. I started to grow bitter over it, and became a quiet, withdrawn
girl. At times, I felt haunted by guilt over making it worse when I
was young. At other times, I felt ashamed of my condition.

I was also worried about my future. Would I be able to find a job?
Would the scoliosis interfere with my normal activities? What if no
one wants to love and marry me because of my condition? How miserable
I would be!

I also started to feel jealous of other people’s physical condition.
Everyone seemed to be able to do everything without back pain. They
could do a lot of things and walk upright.

That’s when I started to ask—and blame—God. Why did He allow me to
have scoliosis? I wondered. If He cares for me, why did He let me
suffer? For a long time, I tried to pray to Him, but I just couldn’t.

The frustration I felt about my condition also affected my confidence.
For a long period, I was very conscious about what I wore and did not
want to cut my hair so that others would not be able to notice my
curved back.

But God had not abandoned me. Along the way, I met others with the
same illness who were still able to live life to the fullest and enjoy
the relationships God had given them. Along the way, I met others with
the same illness who were still able to live life to the fullest and
enjoy the relationships God had given them. Through their lives, I
learned to stop asking “why” and start having faith. Even though I
cannot see what my future is like, I have faith that God will provide
all my needs, including a job and a future spouse.

The Holy Spirit also enabled me to start praying again. Reading God’s
word also taught me how to live my life. I remember God’s promise from
Philippians 4:13: “I can do everything through him who gives me
strength.” He reminded me that I could bear every problem, because He
would not leave me alone.

Over the past year, I have been learning to put my trust entirely in
God. And graciously, He has showed me that all the things I feared
would not come true. I found a job, and someone who loved me. The
condition is also a constant reminder that I cannot do anything
without God’s grace.

When we have God, we can stand firm in our weakness, even though we
may never know the reason for our trials and suffering. We can lean on
His power and surrender all our weaknesses to Him. Above all, we can
hold on to the knowledge that our lives are worth living even though
we are not perfect physically, because each of us is valued by God.

