http://ymi.today/2017/01/should-i-stay-if-my-church-doesnt-satisfy-me/

Should I Stay If My Church Doesn’t Satisfy Me?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Ellington, USA

I belong to a small church which used to meet all of my preferences.

But now, five years and many unforeseeable changes later, our numbers
are dwindling. I am the only person of my age at the church, and I do
not feel satisfied by my experiences there.

What would you do if you were me? Would you hop from church to church
for better music, sermons, and social events, combining different
encounters for the “optimal experience”?

Some would argue that this is akin to going to different grocery
stores to find the necessary ingredients for a good meal, and that my
satisfaction and sense of God’s presence should be the governing
criteria for church involvement.

But what I’ve realized is that when we combine different surface-level
experiences and move between churches, we rob ourselves of the joy and
depth of belonging. Growth happens when we put down roots and commit.

Through Bible study, I’ve become more and more convinced that church
membership is a significant spiritual foundation that we cannot do
without.

This summer, my best friend and I talked about visiting churches
together in the fall. She was preparing to move into college and
needed a congregation closer to her campus. She encouraged me to move
on and find a church with peer community. But I felt I wasn’t ready to
make that decision. Besides valuing church membership, I didn’t want
to make a switch just to follow a friend. I told her that I would
pursue ministry opportunities within the church, and pray about God’s
will for my future.

This process forced me to examine my true motivations for attending
church. Was my primary criterion that church meet my social and
emotional needs, or was I attending for a greater purpose? No doubt I
often feel unmotivated to attend my church and wish that I had gone
elsewhere, but I care about the other members around me, and I know
that I am needed all the more as our numbers decrease. Even though I
feel like my role is limited and unsatisfying, I know that this is
where God wants me to be for this stage of my life.

My current circumstances are not ideal or gratifying, but I know what
really matters. I am hearing the word of God faithfully preached,
praising the Lord with believers, taking communion, and sharing life
with people whom I have promised to care for, love, and protect.

Church membership provides a context to live out the “one another”
commands of Scripture—loving, forgiving, encouraging, and bearing one
another’s burdens. As I choose to invest in others, they invest in me,
and we have the opportunity to be known and loved by a community,
chosen and cared for not because of common interests or shared
activities, but because of Christ.

Without commitment to a church, one can still listen to sermons, sing
songs of praise, and grow in faith through personal devotions. But God
did not design us to live out our faith in isolation. The New
Testament brims with instructions for church life, and it describes
the church as the bride of Christ, His body on earth, and the nexus
through which spiritual growth and community occur. Going to church is
not an experience but being with a family, and is a fundamental
spiritual habit which gives order to our lives, independent of
momentary whims.

I do not trust myself enough to attempt Christian life on my own. I
need the input of other believers to challenge my interpretations,
push me towards ministry, point out sin in my life, and support me. I
know that if I ever stopped attending church, people would pursue me;
and that if I were to be in conflict over a decision, unsure of God’s
will for me, other members who know and love me could speak into my
life. I know that if I ever stopped attending church, people would
pursue me; and that if I were to be in conflict over a decision,
unsure of God’s will for me, other members who know and love me could
speak into my life. I am in the position to do the same for them, and
I do not want to discard these relationships based on temporary
dissatisfaction.

Being in a church is not about my comfort level, sense of fulfillment,
or ease of connection with others. Rather, it is a covenantal
relationship, and no matter how I feel, I know that the other members
and I are keeping watch over one another; there is accountability.
Although this type of obligation might seem burdensome, I know that it
is worth it.

Even when I feel unconnected, I know that I am seen, loved, and
appreciated, and that God has me at my church for a reason. I stay not
out of apathy or obstinacy, but in faith, knowing that God works
through small and everyday things, working out His purposes through
those who are committed and willing.

