http://ymi.today/2017/02/ways-to-die-for-your-spouse/

Ways to Die for Your Spouse

Author: by Contributor

Written By Victor Goh, Singapore

Last year was a crazy year—I got married.

As a “new husband” trying to score brownie points with my wife (and
also because I wanted to get our first Valentine’s Day together
right), I had been thinking of ways to “die” for my wife (Ephesians
5:25). It doesn’t necessarily mean an actual physical death, but it
sure will feel like it on some occasions!

These were some of the ideas that came to my mind:

My wife is a teacher. Every day, she wakes up three hours before me in
order to reach school before 7 a.m. My sleeping habits on the other
hand, are terrible. I don’t usually sleep before 1 a.m.—a habit that
started in my student days.

So one of the things I try to do—with much difficulty—is to wake up
earlier occasionally to have breakfast with her near her school,
especially if I know she has a long day ahead. On other days, I pack
little containers of food for her to bring along to work. I figured
since I usually stay up late, I might as well spend the time doing
something nice for my wife.

Little acts of service like these show our willingness to go the extra
mile to spend time with our loved ones. So go ahead, surprise your
spouse with little acts of love, and I am certain he or she will
notice and be touched.

One of the challenges of marriage is that it throws two people with
likely contrasting lifestyles together.

So they clash.

We are often warned of this “clash of cultures” in marriage
preparation courses. With things like differing sleeping habits and
whether we squeeze the toothpaste from the middle or bottom of the
tube, marriage requires us to make new discoveries about each
other—and not all may be things we like!

Through my many interactions with my wife, God reminded me that I have
much to work on. Gentleness has never been a strong suit for me—I am
the sort who usually speaks my mind, and usually not too tactfully. Be
it communicating something or receiving feedback, I have a terrible
tendency to be quite blunt.

But Paul and Peter gave great advice to husbands:

“Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.” (Col 3:19)

“Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way,
showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs
with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be
hindered.” (1 Pet 3:7)

So to my fellow husbands out there, play nice. Be understanding and
gentle, even if that is not the usual you. If not, you may have to be
doing much of the following . . .

Apologizing would be the death of most men (most humans, for that
matter). A recent sitcom I watched reinforced this in a humorous way.
The wife in the sitcom wanted to invite a couple over for dinner,
certain that her husband would love to meet them. However, her husband
was not particularly thrilled; he believed he did not need more
friends. When they finally met, both husbands realized they shared
many common interests and hit it off right away. But because the
husband did not want to admit to his wife that she was right, he would
not tell his wife whom he was meeting whenever he met the other
husband.

I’m pretty similar. I would rather get into an argument than admit I’m
in the wrong, which often sees me bickering with my wife even in
scenarios where I am clearly in the wrong (think leaving unwashed
bowls on the computer desk for hours after eating).

Recently, in a thought-provoking interview with online ministry
Desiring God, Ajith Fernando, the teaching director of Youth for
Christ in Sri Lanka, said: “Until I apologize, I am a bad example to
my family . . . For a Christian, apologizing should not be a big deal,
because we get our identity from God—and that identity is a gift that
has been given through grace.”

Many times, I don’t want to admit an error or something is my fault
because of pride, image, or reputation. Ajith’s quote prompted me to
correct my thinking: “If our identity was in our performance, then
apologizing would be a big deal. But our identity comes from grace.
When we do wrong, grace is hindered, and we can’t live without grace.”

Dying to our pride and humbly apologizing to our wives, whether in
little or big squabbles, tells our wives we are committed to working
things out and that we recognize God has been gracious to us.

One of the first few things I learned during our marriage preparation
course is that marriage is a one-of-a-kind journey of sanctification
like no other. It is a journey where two sinful human beings come
together in the Lord and sharpen one another.

One key thing I’ve learned about being a husband is that headship as
described in the Bible is not about the right to command or control.
It is the responsibility to love like Christ: to lay down my life in
servant leadership. Holiness as a husband means spending yourself for
your wife. It is costly. For me, it is a lot about giving up the
comforts and bad habits of singlehood, and realizing that I now share
a life with another who is equally wondrously made.

Marriage is a journey of the constant death of two individuals, that
they may become one in Christ. So to my brothers out there, would you
die for your wife?

