http://ymi.today/2016/01/a-7-year-wait-for-gods-answer/

A 7 Year Wait for God’s Answer

Author: by Contributor

Photo Contributed by Bryan Ong, Singapore

Written By Mikki B Saq, Philippines

My parents separated when I turned seven. It did not occur to me,
however, that a broken family was not the norm; in any case, I never
hated my life. My maternal grandmother, who brought me up, was a
fervent Christian who taught me to pray before I went to bed.

Every night I would talk to Him, just like a talkative adolescent
sharing about her day with a good friend. I prayed for my dad, that
God would make him a better person. And I prayed for my parents to fix
their marriage so I could bring them both to school on Family Day.

But God was silent. Sometimes, I wasn’t even sure if He was listening.

I missed both my parents. While my father had moved out, my mother had
gone abroad to work so that she could earn more and send me to a good
school. She would call almost every day, and send me cards and loads
of packages with toys and other things to compensate for her absence.
Occasionally, she would come home. My grandmother would explain why my
mother had to go away, but I didn’t understand it fully. I just longed
to see Mommy every day, to hug and kiss her after a tiring day at
school. Sometimes, I would wonder why life was so unfair to me, though
I would continue to pray every night.

But God was silent. He did not send angels to speak to me, just like
He did with Mary and Joseph. He never showed up in my dreams, nor give
me any sign. He was so quiet that I felt all alone.

Once, my grandmother accompanied me to school to collect our report
cards. As I was walking with great anticipation to get mine from the
teacher, a classmate coming towards us caught my attention. She was
between her parents and they were all holding hands. Her face shone
with happiness as she held her card and looked up at her dad. A wave
of sorrow passed right through me; I had never felt sadder in my
entire life.

My grandmother noticed that I had stopped in my tracks. She must have
known how I felt at that moment, because she squeezed my shoulders and
rubbed my back. Then we continued walking.

Although my grandmother was very traditional and strict with
discipline, she was very loving, and always made sure that I was doing
all right. Her role as both a mom and a dad would sometimes make me
forget that my parents were separated. She would tell me to study well
to ensure that I could have a good future, and would remind me that I
could choose how to live my life. If I didn’t have life’s heartaches,
she would say, I would never be able to see life’s greatest joys.

One day, as we were nearing graduation from primary school, my teacher
called me to her office. She told me that I had a visitor waiting for
me at the reception area near the principal’s office, so off I went.

It was my dad.

His eyes were tearing, and I could feel him longing to hug me. I
walked towards him slowly, my heart pounding; I didn’t even know what
to feel. When I reached him, he ran his hands through my hair and
looked at me with great love as he wiped his tears away. After seven
years, we were finally reunited.

Sometimes, we may feel impatient when we feel that God is not
answering our prayers. We may feel disappointed and think that He is
not listening. But He is.

I now realize that my grandmother was God’s instrument; she was the
guardian angel that He had given me. Although my circumstances were
unfortunate, God made sure I was taken care of and loved, because I
was His beloved. His answer to my prayers did not come in the form of
stars or angels; it came in the form of my grandmother.

And my prayers every night? God had been working on them since Day
One. It took seven years, but if He can be that patient with us, why
can’t we?

Dad is now active in church and he visits me occasionally, reminding
me to pray. What an awesome God we have.

God will always answer our prayers. He may grant them right away or
tell us to wait, or He may have better plans for us. The next time you
pray, tell yourself this: I am a beloved child of God, a beloved child
of the Father.

