http://ymi.today/2016/02/should-we-avoid-conflicts-in-relationships/

Should We Avoid Conflicts in Relationships?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Lai, Singapore

“Do not marry someone you have not had a big fight with.”

The first time I heard this piece of advice, it startled me. It seemed
counter-intuitive. Why would anyone want to marry someone with whom
they have not merely argued, but even had big fights with?

While most of us do not expect relationships to be smooth-sailing all
the time, we do tend to view conflict negatively. Many of us avoid
encounters with conflict as much as we can, and are discouraged when
we see it in our relationships. We think that fewer conflicts mean
that we have grown better at being together.

Do you believe that the less often conflict comes in a relationship,
the better it is for us? I urge you to reconsider. Here’s why.



As we grow closer to a boyfriend or girlfriend, we will eventually end
up touching or exposing raw nerves and soft spots. We may never have
known that these existed, and they could be surprises even to
ourselves. Never knew you were insecure about your identity,
personality, or skills? Or that you fear being left out, neglected, or
pushed away? Learning more about ourselves in this way can be helpful
for us and our relationships too.

As we identify the insecurities and fears we have, God rebukes,
encourages, and points us to His Son Jesus, in whom we can be
completely safe, secure and complete. For instance, as we realize how
insecure we might be about ourselves, or how much we value what our
other half thinks of us (or the other way around), we become cognizant
of our need for Jesus and the need for us to repent and turn back to
Him.

Conflicts reveal what’s in our hearts and how much we can love, trust,
and forgive. Through the way we respond, we learn more about
ourselves—and about each other.



Once, I felt I had wronged my boyfriend. Even though he assured me
that he did not hold anything against me and that our relationship had
not been impacted by how I acted that day, I could not quite believe
him. After the hurt I had caused him, how could things go back to the
way they were?

As I sat down and listened to his assurances, it occurred to me that
that was exactly the way I responded to God each time I felt I had let
Him down. I had always believed that I did not deserve to approach God
when I disappointed Him. I often felt like I was not good enough for
Him, and that He would push me aside when I angered Him.

Our human relationships are small reflections of our relationship with
Him—how we respond to our human partners give us a glimpse of how we
relate to God. This is especially so in close relationships with
friends or family—the words we say and actions we make are tell-tale
signs of how we respond to God and what we believe of His character.



When our expectations of our partners have not been met, we usually
become upset, angry, or even bitter. However, such conflicts give us a
chance to test our hearts, to see how far we are willing to place the
needs and expectations of others above our own. They provide
opportunities for us to practise love, and to show love and care to
our loved ones. In this way, we train our humility, meekness, and
gentleness.

Of course, this is much easier said than done. In the heat of the
moment, when we feel that our rights have been infringed or that we
have not been cared for enough, our first and instinctive response is
to lash out or protect ourselves. But as conflict and pain reveal more
and more of our heart and nature, we will learn to see how self-
righteous and self-centered we can be, and allow God to make us more
Christ-like.

Having said this, there could be relationships where we find ourselves
consistently being betrayed by our boyfriend or girlfriend, or
struggle to see eye-to-eye on critical matters like faith and
priorities. In those instances, it may be a good idea to find suitable
mentors, friends and support groups to help us discern if ending the
relationship is the wisest and most loving thing to do. Nevertheless,
God can work in the most impossible of situations. And quite frankly,
it is often much less about whether we should stay together with our
partners, than it is about the willingness of our hearts to put down
our egos and submit to Christ in our relationships. it is often much
less about whether we should stay together with our partners, than it
is about the willingness of our hearts to put down our egos and submit
to Christ in our relationships.

American pastor Timothy Keller once said, “To be loved but not known
is comforting but superficial. To be known and not loved is our
greatest fear. But to be fully known and truly loved is, well, a lot
like being loved by God. It is what we need more than anything. It
liberates us from pretense, humbles us out of our self-righteousness,
and fortifies us for any difficulty life can throw at us.”

Conflict can push us to understand ourselves better and to grow in
maturity, it can also help us know each other more deeply and grow
closer in our relationships. Let’s use them to transform the way we
relate to each other and to God.

