http://ymi.today/2015/05/are-there-superhumans-in-this-world/

Are There Superhumans In This World?

Author: by Ian Tan

A YouTube video titled “Stan Lee’s Superhuman Super Samurai” caught my
attention recently. Having been trained in Japanese martial arts
myself, I was curious to find out what this super samurai, Isao
Machii, could do. True to the video’s claim that he possessed
superhuman ability to slice through the smallest objects with
incredible speed and precision, Isao was shown wielding a Samurai
sword to slice in half a tiny air gun pellet (about 4,000 times
smaller than a baseball) which was fired towards him, in slow motion.
I was hooked.

So I ended up watching the entire three seasons of Stan Lee’s
Superhumans, hosted by Daniel Browning Smith, a contortionist who is
ranked as the most flexible man in the world. He travels the globe in
search of everyday people with extraordinary physical and mental
abilities. Some of the incredible people featured are: a blind man who
sees the world through bat-like echolocation; a man who lives and
communicates with wolves; a diver who can free dive a depth of nearly
700 feet in a single breath; and a shaolin monk who is able to
withstand the deadly power of a drill forced into his stomach, throat,
and even his head.

Both science and religion have attempted to give reasons for these
extraordinary superhuman abilities some of us possess. Whichever the
explanation we believe, we can all come to a consensus that those
individuals clearly defy what we understand as the human limit. We
marvel precisely because they are able to do what we will never be
able to achieve in our lifetime. In fact, people with amazing
abilities have always lived among us. The Bible does mention a few,
most notably, Samson, a man with immense strength.

While I am amazed at what such individuals can do, I am reminded from
the creation account that God made man in His own likeness. With an
extraordinary powerful God, it shouldn’t surprise us then that some
humans would possess extraordinary abilities. With an extraordinary
powerful God, it shouldn’t surprise us then that some humans would
possess extraordinary abilities.

But there is one ability I am confident the program will never be able
to find among mankind—the ability to raise people from the dead. I
guess that is why the producers of the show were careful to retain the
word “human” in the title. After all, what makes us human is the
inevitable fact that we can die.

The only superhuman who possessed the power of resurrection is Jesus
Christ himself. Jesus displayed that power when He resurrected Lazarus
from the grave (John 11:43). Jesus then displayed His power over death
when He came back to life three days after dying on the cross. His
resurrection marked the culmination of a lifetime demonstration of
other superhuman abilities, from the casting out of demons to the
healing of incurable diseases and physical ailments (Matthew 8:16).

But beyond just an appreciation of His limitless abilities, it is the
implication of His resurrection that we ought to take note of. His
resurrection spells His dominion over life and death. That makes Him
way more than a superhuman; He is God himself. For that, He deserves
our highest accolade—worship.

EDITOR’S NOTE: What is your favorite Bible stories or verses that
reveal the power of God?



Ian is a proponent of Steve Jobs’ fashion style — black t-shirt and
jeans are all you need in your closet. While you would usually find
him talking to people, he’s actually an introvert and his favorite
colour is green. Staying behind his camera capturing the beauty of
God’s creation is where he’s most comfortable. If push comes to shove,
he would rather jump out of a plane than sit on a roller coaster. But
when it comes to potato chips, you can always find a supporter in him.
Anytime, anyplace.



