http://ymi.today/2016/02/relationship-distractions-5-big-culprits/

Relationship Distractions: 5 Big Culprits

Author: by Tracy Phua

I’ll be the first to admit that I am easily distracted. More than once
(all right, I’ll admit it’s more like every other week), my husband
has pointed out that I was not listening to him when he talked because
I was either trying to figure out when we last did the laundry, what
to eat for dinner or was watching a Buzzfeed video on useful cooking
tips. In fact, I can probably get distracted by the TV when I’m
distracted with the watermarks on my window while on the phone.

But I also know how destructive a simple distraction can be to
relationships. Growing up, I saw first-hand how something like money
or a hobby like golf would lead to mini scuffles between my aunts and
uncles. In recent years, the smartphone has caused me to get into one
too many spats with my parents and husband alike because of the amount
of time I spend on it. Hence, I’ve been trying to pay more attention
to the people around me.

Based on my experience, I would like to highlight five culprits that
can distract us from our relationships.



1. Social Media My biggest distraction is my social media accounts. My
husband and I have a routine: Every night, after we clean up the place
and take our showers, we spend time catching up on our day’s events
before we sleep. There have been a couple of times, however, when I
was distracted by my Facebook or Instagram news feeds when my husband
began to share.

In my defence, I can multi-task pretty well. But my husband couldn’t
help but notice that I was fiddling with my phone instead of listening
to him. I know it is hurtful when I don’t make him a priority during
our nightly chat sessions. So now I give myself a time limit to scroll
through the news feeds on my phone before putting it aside to focus on
him.

2. Money Money can be another distraction in our relationships. I
might be generalizing here, but I’ve noticed that a good number of
marital conflicts stem from the issue of money, or rather a lack of
it. I see this played out even in my own family—my mother still
harbors bitterness and resentment against my father over their early
years as a married couple.

Every so often, she would harp over the fact that they had to scrimp
and save on everything as newlyweds and resort to eating bread for
every meal during their honeymoon.

Although she says that these are all things of the past, I can see how
the memory of their very lean bank account is a bitter one for her.

3. Career I’m sure this happens to both parties in a relationship. The
urge to climb the corporate ladder and clinch our first million before
a certain age can become a real distraction in a relationship. After
many missed calls, postponed dates and forgotten birthdays, however,
the damage done is usually irreparable. In some cases, the neglected
party may even throw in the towel and call it quits.

A good friend of mine is currently struggling with this problem. She
is deeply hurt by how she is constantly ignored and sidelined by her
other half, and it has come to the point where she feels that ending
the relationship would be less of a heartache.

4. Hobby My husband can attest to this—he enjoys taking photos and
videos, and being highly task-oriented, can be so absorbed in what he
is doing that he neglects everything else—including me. At times, this
has affected our relationship and resulted in conflict, because I feel
that I do not get enough of his attention.

Over the years, however, God has helped me to see that I need to
support my husband as a wife—even in the things he does for leisure. I
also thank God for revealing to my husband that he should not be
overly-focused on his hobbies so much so that he neglects the people
in his life. Although it has been a struggle for both of us, I am
thankful that we have been able to make a conscious effort to ensure
that our hobbies do not distract us from our relationship with each
other.

5. Service This may come as quite a surprise, but I can assure you
that even the act of service can be a problem when we do not serve for
the right reasons or we do not know how to say “No” when we need to.
If we serve with the wrong motives or over-commit ourselves, we could
end up serving grudgingly or be tired out physically and mentally.

Also, if one spouse is excessively involved in church commitments and
the other spouse is always left by himself or herself, this will
inevitably affect their relationship.

While I’m not advocating that we take a backseat when it comes to
service, I believe that we need to be discerning about what we can or
should do in church, so that we serve whole-heartedly while still
having time for our relationships.



These distractions that may plague our relationships from time to time
are not just limited to the relationships that we have with our
significant other; they can also be distractions to the most important
relationship we have—our relationship with our Heavenly Father. they
can also be distractions to the most important relationship we
have—our relationship with our Heavenly Father.

Because God does not complain like a husband or boyfriend might do, we
may be even more easily distracted from spending time with Him or
listening to His still, soft voice. Our social media accounts, worries
about money, career, and hobbies can distract us from reading His Word
and praying to Him, while we can get so caught up with serving at
church that we forget the One we are really serving.

Let’s be careful not to let these distractions blind us to the things
and people that matter the most.



Tracy enjoys spending time with loved ones, preferably over a good
meal. She finds the organizing and cleaning of spaces, therapeutic.
Her fascination is with languages and she hopes to pick up one or two
more during her time on this side of eternity. Spending time immersed
in God’s creation – by the sea or on a mountain – is her idea of a
perfect holiday. She will not say no to huggable cats, hot soup on a
cold day and fried chicken.



