http://ymi.today/2015/05/orphan-to-queen-what-ive-learned-from-esther/

Feeling Unprepared for What God is Calling You To?

Author: by Kezia Lewis

“You can’t do this. You are not prepared for this kind of work.”

“You don’t have what it takes to fulfill this role, so don’t accept
it.”

“There are others who can do the job better; let them do it.”

I have a confession to make: I hide behind the veil of my flaws to
excuse myself from doing the tasks that God calls me to do. I struggle
with doubts and fears. I wrestle with many limitations and
shortcomings.

But the book of Esther pointed me to a truth I have not seen before.

Raised by her cousin, Mordecai, Esther was an orphaned girl who lost
both her parents at a really young age—nothing short of a tragic
weight to carry as a child. She must have not been proud of it and I
doubt she flaunted that information to anyone who came close to
getting to know her intimately.

How weak she must have felt and unfit to do many things because of her
lack of a “real” family. (I know I had felt inadequate not having my
father while growing up.) But her brokenness makes her pliable in
God’s hands. It created room for Him to do something phenomenal
because she didn’t have it all together. He chose to use Esther not in
spite of her history but because of it (as American author Beth Moore
says in her study guide on Esther). He chose her because in her
apparent inadequacy His power was unmistakable.

I had always presumed that our strengths are what God uses to bring
about His will for our lives. And while that is true, it’s not the
whole story. God operates through our weaknesses as much as He
operates through our strengths. God operates through our weaknesses as
much as He operates through our strengths. Esther’s story demonstrates
that.

I suspect that she didn’t see herself as having the edge to compete
against all the other girls in the harem and win the king’s heart. I
would even venture to say that she probably found herself in an
unfavorable position because of who she was—an orphaned Jew in a
foreign land—with little or nothing to boast about her background. I
doubt becoming queen ever crossed her mind. Yes, she was lovely; but
Queen Vashti, the queen she replaced, was lovelier.

In Esther: It’s Tough Being A Woman, Beth Moore wrote: “One reason
some scholars surmise that Vashti’s beauty may have even exceeded
Esther’s is that, in a genre where words mean the world, Vashti was
twice attributed with beauty and Esther, once.”

Yet the king noticed Esther; he chose her to be his new queen. The
king could have so easily chosen a different girl (and he had many
choices) whose beauty surpassed that of his previous queen but instead
he favored Esther.

Thus begins one of the well-known rags-to-riches stories in the Bible
where a seemingly disadvantaged girl becomes the one who rescues her
people from total annihilation.

Who would have thought of this unlikely hero to come out of the debris
of her painful history? God did. For He can use ordinary individual to
accomplish His saving plan.

He had chosen her for such a time, and it was glorious. Esther taught
me this: my weaknesses are not reasons for God to not call my name to
fulfill a role in His work. They are avenues for Him to create
something only He can—beauty out of the ashes.



Kezia resides with her husband, Jason, in Krabi, Thailand where she
serves alongside him in the ministry under Sowers International and
teaches English at a local Thai school. She and her sister were named
by her mom (who has not read the Bible before that) after two of Job’s
new daughters (Job 42:14). She sees that as God telling her she is
“His daughter.” She loves to call God as Father for He is that to her.
She feels particularly calm when it rains and loves to be near any
body of water.

She blogs at kezia-lewis.com.



