http://ymi.today/2016/02/is-it-possible-to-resist-sex-in-this-day-and-
age/

Is It Possible to Resist Sex in this Day and Age?

Author: by Michele Ong

I’m a real prude when it comes to sex, and my belief hasn’t come
without costs.

Friends and acquaintances have been known to give me strange looks
when they learn about it. “But you’ll have to try it out, you know, in
case you’re not sexually compatible with your partner,” was the
standard quote I’d hear.

There were also former boyfriends who believed sex before marriage was
okay as long as it was within a loving relationship and between
consenting parties. Well, I was only 16 years old when I went out with
my first boyfriend, so I’m not sure how mature I would have been at
that age to make such a serious decision. But they put me under
pressure anyway.

All sorts of reasons from “if you love me . . .” and “all my friends
are doing it with their girlfriends, I feel so left out” to “it’s a
little outdated, don’t you think?” were paraded in front of me. One of
them believed it was unreasonable for God to expect modern couples to
wait until their wedding day to have sex since people were getting
married at a later age. “It just isn’t possible,” he said.

The idea of getting pregnant, however, was terrifying. I would have
rather sat my accounting examinations repeatedly than get pregnant at
16.

If you thought my no-sex-before-marriage stance stemmed from a
religious upbringing, with parents harping that I would be sent to
Hell if I ever crossed the line, you thought wrong. No, my only
introduction to the notion that sex was not something to do outside of
marriage was when I watched the movie Titanic. I was 12 then. An
X-rated scene between Jack and Rose came on, and all my mum said was,
“Don’t do that, OK, it’s not good,”—and that was that.

For some reason, her words stayed with me, and I repeat the stance to
potential dates over the next decade, and to anyone who would listen
(albeit with much skepticism).

“So, you’re religious, right?” they would ask.

To be honest, had it just been about obeying God’s law, I would have
folded the moment the pressure got too much. It was in fact more of a
personal belief that sex was not something that should be treated so
nonchalantly, which is why I was so fiercely protective over it. As I
grew older, I found it was a very handy test to gauge if a guy was
worth dating or not. If he wasn’t prepared to respect my decision on
such an important matter, then he wasn’t the person I would want to
date.

One former date said he wasn’t sure if he could handle a relationship
that did not have sex involved. “Unless I believe you were my
soulmate, I don’t think I’d be able to give up having sex in a
relationship. It would just be too much to ask for,” he said. Needless
to say, I went home in a huff and the relationship didn’t progress to
anything serious.

Admittedly, there were times when I wondered whether I should just
throw this notion of no-sex-before-marriage away, so life could be so
much easier. Why the prude lifestyle? I would ask myself.

After all, we live in a world where sex before marriage is the norm,
and waiting for marriage is seen as plain bizarre.

When American writer and comedian Elna Baker wrote about abstinence in
a 2009 article, “Yes, I’m a 27-year-old Virgin”, she described how she
grappled with the challenge before deciding that she was no longer
against premarital sex. In 2011, she announced that she was no longer
a virgin and said, “I don’t regret losing my virginity, but I also
don’t regret waiting. I know now that it’s a very personal journey.”

Sometimes, sex is seen not only as a personal choice, but is virtually
a must-do. In the 2005 comedy, “The 40-Year-Old Virgin”, when the
friends of a hapless single find out that he has never “done the
deed”, they set out to help him “do the deed”.

In his book, Laugh Your Way to a Better Marriage, American pastor Mark
Gungor notes that sex was God’s idea. He writes: “He is the one who
created our bodies to feel the way they feel when they’re touched and
caressed. He is the one who created the potential for orgasm—that
almost out-of-body experience. Sex is a divine gift.”

The Bible tells us that God designed sex to be enjoyed within the
context of a marriage. It is a gift that one should enjoy in the right
context, because it involves a level of intimacy that no other human
relationship can bring. God meant it for our good when He instructed
us not to arouse or awaken love until it so desires (Song of Solomon
8:4). We are also to flee from sexual immorality because our body is a
temple of God and we’ve been bought at a very high price—the precious
blood of Jesus (1 Corinthians 6:18-20).

The way I see it, God’s instructions not to have sex before marriage
is like having your parents tell you that you can’t open your birthday
present until it’s your birthday. You see, sex is like a wedding gift
from God to a couple, and it’s something that’s to be opened on your
wedding night. But if you go ahead and open your present before your
birthday, then you would lose the joy that comes with the anticipation
and fulfilment when the big day comes round.

As Gungor wrote, “Always remember, God is not a prude. He does not
tell us to avoid sexual promiscuity because He is somehow embarrassed
about sex. He just knows how we’re wired and wants us to experience
the very best.”



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



