https://ymi.today/2018/01/dont-give-up-on-making-resolutions-
heres-5-tips/

Don’t Give Up On Making Resolutions, Here’s 5 Tips

Author: by Contributor

Written By Michael D. Giammarino, USA

Making New Year’s resolutions is one of my favorite traditions of the
holiday season. “What’s your New Year’s resolution?” is an unavoidable
question asked of friends, family, and coworkers alike this time of
year.

Interestingly enough, setting New Year’s resolutions is a rather old
practice. Ancient Babylonians, Greeks, Romans, and even medieval
knights used to participate in practices not entirely unlike the ones
we have today. In fact, the most recent form of New Year’s resolutions
that parallel our modern practices came from the Christian Methodists.
John Wesley held watch-night services in which his congregation would
pray and make promises to God on the eve or first day of the New Year.

Personally, I love the whole idea of setting resolutions and creating
grand, overarching goals that span the course of an entire year. They
can be a wonderful way to stretch yourself and grow towards becoming a
better you. In the past, I saw resolutions as cheesy. I even thought
of them like I think of an old person’s dentures—useful for some
people, just not for me. To me, resolutions were goals (often
irritating ones) that either left people dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or
entirely aggravated with failed performance.

As I got older, though, I began to see the benefit of setting these
large-scale objectives. For instance, I have adopted the practice of
making lists and have become more organized all because of a
resolution a couple of years ago. Ever since, I have been trying to
set other beneficial resolutions that could help me in my life’s
journey.

But what kinds of resolutions are beneficial? Of course, there are the
classic ones that come up every year. Pew Research resolution data
revealed that top resolutions were to “spend less money or save more,”
“be a better person,” and, to no surprise, “exercise more”, each
boasting 12 percent of respondents. Other common resolutions are
typically improving career positions, taking certain trips, meeting
new people, and becoming more spiritually inclined.

While I’m a big fan of these generic goals, I’ve usually made my
resolutions quirky goals dealing with specific undertakings. One year,
for instance, I made my resolution based entirely on clichés such as
Dr. Seuss’ “The more that you read, the more you will know. The more
you learn, the more places you’ll go.” That year, I greatly increased
my reading amount and was even able to breeze through 10 leisure books
in my summer alone.

But whether you like your resolutions common or quirky, here are some
points I’ve found to be very helpful in meeting resolutions with
success:



One helpful pointer is using the concept of “SMART” goals. This clever
acronym suggests goals should be Specific, Measurable, Attainable,
Relevant, and Time-based. When resolutions are “SMART”, there is a
greater likelihood that they will be accomplished since the added
qualifications help keep one grounded in reality. Take the common
resolution to “work out more,” for instance. As is, the resolution is
vague and offers no direction. A “SMART” version of it would be to
“lift weights for an hour four days a week throughout the year.” This
would help one stay focused and ultimately, have a better chance for
success.



Breaking down resolutions into different life categories has also
helped me greatly. For instance, since I love the outdoors, I make a
separate list of goals featuring places I want to hike, amount of
times I’d like to camp, and different backcountry sports I want to try
for the upcoming year. This separate list forms my outdoor resolution.
I also have one for books I hope to read and articles I hope to write
and other miscellaneous goals as well. I’ve found it helpful to
simplify my aspirations into bite-sized chunks.



Another tool that I’ve found useful is actually writing down
resolutions (or typing them). I think there is something special about
actually codifying one’s resolutions onto a formal document in a way
of proclaiming “this is serious” to yourself and to the world. It adds
another level of accountability. Last year, I took this a step further
and began writing how I performed next to my resolution for the
previous year. It has helped me stay in line throughout the year
knowing that I will have to come back at the year’s end to see how I
stacked up.



Grab a close relative or friend and share resolutions with one another
along with a promise to hold each other accountable. I’m actually
going to be implementing an accountability partner for the first time
this year since I think I probably would have been better off with
2017’s resolutions if I had one. Accountability partners force us to
produce results and, additionally, force us to focus on the success of
someone other than ourselves, which produces humility, which helps us
concentrate on the more important things in life.



The final tip for fulfilling a resolution—and it happens to be the
most important tip—is to connect to the very roots of this whole
tradition. We would be better off bringing our resolutions before God
and asking for His strength as we embark on a new journey towards new
destinations in a new year. We can promise our friends, our coworkers,
even ourselves that we resolve to do these new things. But let us not
forget to take a moment and make our promises to God that we will
faithfully strive to achieve what He sets before us.



Many people think there is no point to making resolutions because, in
the end, they are going to fail anyway. I want to encourage you to
keep your head up. Even if you’ve failed at resolutions in the past,
the beauty of this tradition is that each year brings new chances for
success! The past is the past and it does not have to dictate how you
will perform in the New Year. Start with a fresh mindset, one that
assumes success is around the corner, and you will be more likely to
achieve it.

And also, don’t think failure indicates the end of the road. Failure
often helps motivate you to discover more effective ways of achieving
your goals. Resolutions are not a place to arrive at–they are a
continual journey of progress. No one will ever be perfectly fit,
perfectly manage money, or do anything else perfectly. Perfection
doesn’t exist! It’s about the growth through the process. One year,
part of my resolution dealt with punctuality and time management. Did
I achieve it perfectly? Nope. And that’s okay because I have become
more punctual nonetheless and have continued to strive to become more
punctual still. The journey has been beneficial and continues to
challenge me today and that has made all the difference.

As this section of life winds down and we approach the next segment, I
hope you take time to reflect on the past year and consider all that
has happened, both the good and bad, the ups and the downs. I also
hope you decide to join in on a millennium-old tradition and form
resolutions for the upcoming year.

Whether they are resolutions for fitness, or finances, or friendships,
I hope you will see these unique goals as a beneficial means by which
we can be challenged to grow in exciting new ways.

