http://ymi.today/2015/08/when-friends-disagree/

When Friends Disagree

Author: by Olivia Ow

Written By Olivia Ow, Singapore

“Sorry, but I don’t agree with you . . .” This is usually followed by
awkward silence and angry tears.

I’ve always found it difficult to disagree with someone, because I
don’t want to lose a friend. I’ve found it even harder to accept it
when someone disagrees with me, because my ego is hurt. When someone
has a difference of opinion, I see it as the other person condemning,
rejecting, or judging me—regardless of how the comment is expressed. I
feel as though the other person doesn’t value me as a person and has
overlooked or disregarded the effort and thought I’ve put into what
I’m saying or doing. That makes me feel hurt, misunderstood, and
belittled. So my usual response—before the other person gets a chance
to explain why she disagrees with me—would be: “If you aren’t able to
see my point of view or do things my way, then what you think isn’t
worth my time or consideration either.” (That usually explains the
angry tears.)

But I’ve come to realize that when a friend disagrees with me,
sometimes she is simply saying, “I don’t agree with the method or the
way things are done.” She still respects me as a person, and is merely
pointing out an alternative way to look at a matter and asking me to
consider it. She is simply commenting about my opinion, plans or
actions, and not about my value as a person.

However, there may be times when my friend disagrees with me because I
am sinning against God. That’s when I need to listen to what she says
and act on it.

But this can get tricky: how do I know whether a friend is simply
disagreeing with my opinion, or whether she is pointing out my sin?
I’ve learned that one way to help my friends and I discern the
difference, is for us to be open and honest with each other, and to
voice our thoughts and listen to each other carefully—or at times, to
agree to disagree. I’ve learned that one way to help my friends and I
discern the difference, is for us to be open and honest with each
other, and to voice our thoughts and listen to each other carefully—or
at times, to agree to disagree.

At the end of the day, while we can’t control how a person will
respond to our views, we can learn to disagree with our friends in
love. When we are motivated by love, we won’t be self-righteous and
feel that we are better than the other person. And that will help us
to be sensitive, less emotional, and more objective in the way we
express our opinions. A loving heart is humble (1 Corinthians 13:4).
In the same way, we can also stay open to feedback from others,
knowing that our friends may be correcting us in love (Galatians
6:1-4).

Christian writer Gordon MacDonald wrote: “There is a certain
“niceness” to a friendship where I can be, as they say, myself. But
what I really need are relationships in which I will be encouraged to
become better than myself. Myself needs to grow a little each day. I
don’t want to be the myself I was yesterday. I want to be the myself
that is developing each day to be more of a Christ-like person.”

Good friendships build each other up, sometimes through disagreement
and honest opinions. And while I don’t like being disagreed with, I’m
starting to see the value of such disagreements.

Let’s strive to be better versions of ourselves and encourage our
friends to do likewise too!



Not a natural writer, Olivia struggles to find the right words to
express her thoughts. Normally, she would rather listen to what people
are saying than to expose her musings, so you’ll be surprised by her
keen observations about the world and the Word when she lets you into
her thinking. Because she is often wrestling within herself to live
out the Christian life, her writing contains an authenticity that
touches both the heart and mind.



