http://ymi.today/2015/08/3-reasons-why-we-gossip/

3 Reasons Why We Gossip

Author: by Wendy Wong

One of my earliest memories as a child was waiting for a doctor’s
appointment with my mother. We were seated side by side in a
nondescript waiting room, and seated diagonally across from us was a
little girl with her mother. When I looked up, I caught her staring at
me as she cupped her hands around her mother’s ears and whispered. I
don’t quite remember what I felt—possibly fear, hostility, or
confusion—but I decided to mimic her. I cupped my hands to my mother’s
ears to whisper something inconsequential, just to show her that she
hadn’t won, and that I, too, could make her feel afraid and reduce her
to what my words made her out to be.

That was my very first encounter with gossip at the age of six—before
I could even grasp the concept of what gossip was.

As I grew into my teenage years, gossiping about others became a daily
affair. In school, my friends and I would eyeball our target’s every
move, anticipating her next misstep. When it happened, we’d glance at
each other with knowing smirks, and gather later to whisper and
snicker about what we’d just seen. And we didn’t just gossip about
those we disliked; we also backstabbed our own friends, a practice
rife in our social circles.

It was only after I came to know Christ some years ago, that I began
to realize the impact of my “harmless” gossiping—on others as well as
on myself. Over time, I started to understand why gossiping holds such
allure for us:



Though we may like to think otherwise, every single one of us is
sinful by nature. James 3:8 tells us that “no human being can tame the
tongue”, which he describes as a “restless evil, full of deadly
poison”.

We are inclined to judge others because of our pride, which tells us
that we are better than others. When we think that someone is ugly,
stupid, or uncouth, or says or does something that annoys us, it is
because we think that we are more attractive, smarter, cooler, or more
“pleasing” and acceptable.

We are quick to pick at the faults of others, yet we fail to recognize
that we too have many faults—faults which Jesus chose to overlook when
He sacrificed himself for us on the cross. Knowing that we are
forgiven, accepted, and loved by God’s grace alone, how can we not
show the same grace to others?

Jesus knew that this would be our struggle when He gave us these
instructions: “Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not
condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be
forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed
down, shaken together and running over, will be poured into your lap.
For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you” (Luke
6:37-38, emphasis mine).

We are in no position to judge others; only God is. Instead, we are
called to show grace to others, just as Jesus has lavished the same
grace upon us. Ephesians 4:29-32 tells us exactly how to do so:

Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what
is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it
may benefit those who listen. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of
God, with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Get rid of
all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every
form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving
each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.



My six-year-old self may not have known what gossiping was, but I
reacted in such a way because I felt vulnerable to the girl sitting
opposite. Likewise, many of us badmouth others because we
subconsciously feel insecure about our place in society, and fearful
of what others may think about us. We try to seek ways to look and
feel better about ourselves, and one of the ways is to diss
others—like a seesaw, we put others down to raise ourselves. Gossiping
bolsters our self-esteem and masks our own insecurities.

When our identity is found in Christ, however, there is no need for us
to protect or empower ourselves through gossip. Knowing this, we can
find true meaning and acceptance in our Creator, and base our
confidence and trust on our Cornerstone. As children of God, we are
called to “put off your old self”, and to “put on the new self,
created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness” (Ephesians
4:22–24).



Gossiping is a social activity; for some, it is a means of bonding
with others. Dissing others can also be “entertaining”, like how
Proverbs 26:22 describes it: “The words of a gossip are like choice
morsels; they go down to the inmost parts.”

How can we stop ourselves from taking part in gossip? Here are four
practices I’ve tried to adopt to help myself steer clear of gossiping:

1. Change the topic. Badmouthing others can only happen if there are
listening ears; as the saying goes, it takes two hands to clap. The
best way to prevent ourselves from gossiping is to steer the
conversation in the right direction. We can bring up other subjects or
talking points that our friends would also be interested in. There are
certainly far better options and more meaningful topics to bond over
than badmouthing!

2. Be quick to listen and slow to speak. It can be tempting to blurt
out whatever is on our minds, especially when our friends are
encouraging us to share the latest juicy rumour. But James 1:19 tells
us that “everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak”. So, if
our friends are ranting about someone as a means of letting off steam,
we would do well just to listen, and not add anything. Sometimes, our
friends don’t expect us to say anything, but to listen, sympathize and
offer a comforting word where necessary. Ephesians 4:29 is a great
verse to remember.

3. Avoid those who thrive on gossip. I used to have a friend who was a
notorious gossip queen. From the moment we first met to the last
conversation we ever had, ridiculing others featured prominently in
our friendship. However, a relationship built on criticism and malice
is neither an authentic nor deep one. If we have friends who love
gossiping, we might want to ask ourselves whether we want to continue
surrounding ourselves with such people. We may even want to
prayerfully consider spending less time with them, lest we fall into
this habitual sin ourselves. As 2 Timothy 2:16 advises us, “Avoid
godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and
more ungodly.”

4. Lastly, do not judge those who gossip. This is one thing I’m most
guilty of. Ultimately, if we think we’re holier or better than
gossipers or slanderers, we would be no better than they are. We must
not fall into the trap of believing that we are more righteous than
others, like the Pharisees in Jesus’ time who condemned others who
committed sins. The reality is that we are no less sinful than others;
it is by grace alone that we are saved, and grace we ought to bestow
upon others.

Although it may be hard to stop gossiping, especially when everyone
else is doing it, we can trust that with God, everything is possible
(Matthew 19:26). When we are saved, God gives us the strength and
power to overcome the sins in our lives, no matter how entrenched or
tempting they are (1 Corinthians 10:13).

May Paul’s words in Colossians 3:7–12 instruct and encourage us.

You used to walk in these ways, in the life you once lived. But now
you must also rid yourselves of all such things as these: anger, rage,
malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips. Do not lie to
each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices
and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in
the image of its Creator. Therefore, as God’s chosen people, holy and
dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility,
gentleness and patience. Bear with each other and forgive one another
if any of you has a grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord
forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them
all together in perfect unity.

Brian Smithson (Old Geordie) / Foter / CC BY



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



