http://ymi.today/2015/04/what-do-we-do-when-there-seems-to-be-no-hope/

What Do We Do When There Seems To Be No Hope?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Tay Boon Jin

Boon Jin has been a staff with Singapore Youth for Christ for the past
15 years. She now serves in Malaysia—reaching children through the
teaching of English.

Whenever it comes to the part of a movie where a disaster unravels or
innocent lives are in peril, we grip our chairs in anticipation for
the turning point when help would come or the hero would spring into
action—a beacon of hope amidst a despondent situation. And when hope
comes for a brief moment but eventually goes away, the sense of loss
is even more pronounced.

Recent events have shown that these scenarios are not too distant from
real life. Almost every day, we hear about individuals in life-
threatening situations: some trapped in natural or man-made disasters;
others taken as hostages or made prisoners (some simply for being at
the wrong place at the wrong time; others because of their
nationality, beliefs, or even lifestyle). Similar to how we are at the
movies, we sit at the edges of our seats, hoping and praying that
things would turn out fine as we watch updates about attempts made to
rescue the victims from their unfortunate plights. When rescue efforts
have been successful, we pump our fists in the air. And when the
converse happens, we shake our heads and cry out in anguish. All hope
is lost.

If you think about it, this lack of guarantee of deliverance and
rescue from dire straits extends even to daily aspects of life.
Perhaps it is a debilitating illness that has been enslaving you for a
long time and you’re wondering if the latest drug development could
finally be the cure to your condition. Or maybe it’s a broken and
messy family situation you’re stuck in and you can’t wait to get
married to the one who can lift you out of your sorry state into a new
life—happily ever after.

Regardless of what we’re each facing, hope is an important concept in
our lives but at times, seems so slippery and elusive. Is there any
certain hope we can cling on to—a hope that will stay and not leave?

Some 2,000 years ago this theme was all played out, not in an epic
movie, but in real life in the city of Jerusalem.

To the disciples: Jesus’ death meant all hope was lost

Hanging on the cross for sins He did not commit, Jesus Christ was
abandoned—His disciples were not there with Him. They had fled not
just from the scene of Jesus’ death but from the Master whom they had
spent the last three years with in close interaction. Their initial
motivation to follow Jesus Christ was simple—He could do what no
ordinary men can do. They pinned their hopes on Him being the one sent
by God to liberate the Jews from the bondage under men’s (Roman) rule.
They followed Him, watched Him perform works of miracles, and listened
to Him preach about the kingdom of God. They were amazed by what they
were given to witness. Truly, He had the power to restore the kingdom
to Israel. Their confidence grew with that hope of a new king. They
even argued about who would be the greatest when the kingdom comes and
took up arms when the religious leaders confronted Jesus. There was
hope for them and for Israel!

But God had a very different plan for how His kingdom will be set up.
It would be by blood, not through war, but by the humble sacrifice of
one man alone: Jesus Christ. But God had a very different plan for how
His kingdom will be set up. It would be by blood, not through war, but
by the humble sacrifice of one man alone: Jesus Christ. When the
authorities took Jesus, fear beset the disciples. Jesus was
questioned, flogged, and made to carry the cross through the town and
eventually nailed to a cross. He died the death of a criminal, totally
unbefitting of a king and savior. If Jesus had been the new king sent
by God, He would not be defeated! In the disciples’ eyes, Jesus had
failed. Whatever hope they originally had in the Savior was completely
extinguished.

If you think about it, all of us have pinned our hope on something or
someone to give us confidence in the current situations which we are
in. Perhaps it was someone who we thought would love us and take care
of us the rest of our lives or something like material acquisition to
lift us from deprivation. Or maybe it was some medical cure that would
free us from the pain of ill health or death, or from losing a loved
one. But when we find ourselves unloved, deprived, and in pain at the
end, we start to question if our object of hope is real in the first
place. When we conclude that the object of hope brings us nowhere
further from the prospects we dread, we give up trusting it, some of
us driven to discouragement, some to defeat, and some to despair. We
tell ourselves that the way out of these feelings would be to end it
all.

To God: Jesus’ death was the ultimate means of hope

But this is not the case when the object of hope is truly of power.
Just when the disciples were feeling dejected, Jesus Christ appeared
before them. The One who had died had risen from the dead and this was
highly significant—it proved that Jesus is truly the Son of God. This
miracle was the climax of all the other miracles that the disciples
had seen. Jesus had overcome death—this means there is a true hope not
just on earth but for eternity.

The resurrection and reappearance of Jesus brought about a new
understanding for the disciples. All along, they had identified the
wrong issue and placed great value in the wrong thing. They thought
that restoration of the kingdom to Israel was what was most important.
But the real problem which men faced was sin. As the true hope, Jesus
made a way for salvation of the soul. Jesus came, died to pay for our
sin’s penalty, and rose again to give us a new life with the new
standing before God our Judge.

When we are faced with a hopeless situation, and feel there is just
too much discouragement and despair, look at the reason for Jesus’
death and resurrection. If we understand that God has given us His
only Son, will He not also journey with us through life’s ups and
downs and lead us safely home? With Jesus’ death and resurrection, the
light and momentary troubles need not weigh us down to the point of
despair but should drive us to look forward to the day when Jesus
shall come again and perfect all things.



