http://ymi.today/2015/04/its-not-a-freak-of-nature/

It’s Not a Freak of Nature

Author: by Vania Tan

The solar eclipse that happened in mid-March was indeed a breathtaking
spectacle. While millions witnessed the event around the world, a
fortunate few in the Faroe Islands and Svalbard, far north of Europe,
even got to see a total solar eclipse, with the moon completely
blocking the sun.

As I don’t live anywhere close to those regions, I turned to the
Internet for videos and photographs of this event—and was gobsmacked.
As the moon crept past the sun and blocked it from view, blinding
sunbeams streamed through the sky. Then, at 9.14 a.m., the bright
morning sky suddenly turned dark, as if twilight had fallen, before
complete darkness fell. It all seemed so surreal. What a “freak” of
nature it was, I thought to myself. I just couldn’t grasp the science
of it all.

The eclipse reminded me of a similar darkness that spanned the sky
after Christ’s death on the cross. Matthew 27:45 describes what
happened: “From noon until three in the afternoon darkness came over
all the land.” A full three hours! While some have speculated that
this was due to a total eclipse, others have contended that it was not
possible for a total eclipse to last so long, as the moon was in the
wrong position at the time.

What I found more interesting, however, was the differing reactions
both events evoked in people. On March 20, 2015, those watching the
eclipse, which included stargazers and campers, were filled with
anticipation and excitement as they prepared for the moment. In
contrast, when the sky turned dark at Jesus’ crucifixion, people were
filled with remorse, guilt, anger or fear. “They were terrified, and
exclaimed, ‘Surely he was the Son of God!’” (Matthew 27:54). It made
me wonder: How would I have responded if I were present at Jesus’
crucifixion?

Though we do not know if darkness had covered the entire world or just
part of it, we do know with certainty that God was glorified through
what had happened. The miraculous phenomenon demonstrated God’s power
and showed the impact of the crucifixion on the whole world.

As we look back on Good Friday and Easter Sunday, let’s take some time
to reflect on Jesus’ death for us. He took our sins and shame away and
freely forgave us, so that we could be reconciled to God. Without the
light of Christ, the world would still remain in darkness.

Photo credit: oroyplata. / Foter / CC BY-NC



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



