http://ymi.today/2016/11/the-day-i-got-hit-by-a-truck/

The Day I Got Hit By A Truck

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

It was fall 2012. Like many millennials, I was over-committed to a
variety of service and extracurricular pursuits—none of which I was
willing to subtract from my life, but the sum of which left me
completely drained.

I was in the process of accepting the invitation to become a deacon at
my home church and in an essay, had penned a few lines reminding
myself of God’s goodness and sovereignty. It said, “One of the current
lessons in this stage of my life is that God is always providing what
is good for us even when we aren’t getting what we think we want
(however good and noble those desires may be). In the painful times of
receiving continual ‘no’s’ to my plans, I will try to think back to
this time and know that God is sovereign over all circumstances and is
working them out for my ultimate good.”

I couldn’t have imagined how I’d be challenged to live out those words
in a journey I would soon begin.

Laura at her graduation, 6 months before the accident

Less than a week before Christmas—exactly half way through my clinical
fellowship as a Speech-Language Pathologist—my parents and I had to
attend my grandmother’s memorial service in another state. I was going
to play my cello during the service, so we squeezed the large
instrument into the already crowded vehicle. We buckled our seatbelts
and said a prayer, dedicating our trip and the upcoming memorial
service to God. I took a seat in the back of the van and quickly
succumbed to sleep.

Several hours into the drive, a momentarily lapse of attention caused
our vehicle to drift and collide with an 18-wheeler semi-truck. By a
divinely-ordained coincidence, there were two off-duty nurses driving
in the opposite direction on the highway at the time. They pulled over
and ran across to come to our assistance. Later, we learned that they
were fellow believers.

The van’s side was peeled back as if by a can opener, and I was
dangling in the open space, held by the seat belt tethered to my
waist. Due to the severity of my injuries, any incorrect movements by
well-intentioned strangers could have easily killed me or left me
paralyzed.

Picture of the horrific crash

One of the nurses attended to my mom, who was unconscious, while the
other nurse supported my broken neck. My dad was conscious but in a
serious state of shock. An ambulance took me to a local hospital to be
stabilized, then I was transferred by helicopter to a larger facility
that was better equipped to handle my serious injuries. Thorough
testing revealed that I had suffered a moderate-severe traumatic brain
injury and had broken many bones, including my jaw and several spinal
vertebrae. Initially, my family and friends were given very sobering
predictions regarding my future physical and cognitive abilities.

At the time of the accident, I was wearing around my neck a silver
pendant I had inscribed with the Hebrew phrase “Talitha Koum”, which
means, “Little girl, I say to you, get up!” This is based on Mark
5:41, which tells how Jesus spoke those words as He raised a young
girl from the dead.  I had always been drawn to the story, recognizing
that Jesus assuredly answers our cries for healing, although His
response may or may not come in the restoring of physical ailments.

I was treated in several hospitals for a total of 72 days—of which I
have no memory. I advanced fairly quickly from being bed-bound to
using a wheelchair, then from using a cane to walking unaided, and
also from relying on a ventilator and tube feedings to breathing and
eating unassisted.

Laura in a medically-induced coma just days after the accident

Now, nearly four years and innumerable hours of physical therapy
later, my deficits are largely invisible at first glance. You can see
the scars on my petite frame only if you look closely, and you might
not notice the weakness in the left side of my body. I use subtle,
compensatory strategies to make up for my poor, short-term
memory—which I am likely to experience the rest of my life. Being a
very determined person, I have pushed myself hard in physical therapy,
but some of the activities I once loved to do are currently still
impossible for me, including playing the cello.

I don’t know why God allowed this accident to occur. But more
importantly, I also don’t know why He allowed me to experience such a
remarkable recovery. I don’t know why God allowed this accident to
occur. But more importantly, I also don’t know why He allowed me to
experience such a remarkable recovery. My oldest sister, Annie, died
suddenly and tragically when I was less than a year old, so I grew up
personally experiencing God’s love and sovereignty and understanding
that His character remains constant despite sudden changes in life
plans. I am grateful that even before this accident, I knew I was
secure in God’s hands and that He was sovereignly guiding my life. In
my case, His “Talitha Koum” for me has included amazing healing that
came amid huge losses, uncertainties, and complete shake-ups to my
plans.

Throughout this journey, which has included moments ranging from
nearly unbearable grief to amazement and joy, I have valued the
lessons God has gently reinforced, and which I will continue to
appreciate throughout my life. I have had a few, very dramatic and
life changing years, but I do not consider the resulting uncertainties
to be wholly unique to those often faced by others in my age group.

Even if an 18-wheeler didn’t collide with your plans, this time of
your life is usually marked by choices that could determine your
future. Choosing jobs, starting relationships, other moves . . . the
possibilities seem endless. Some ambitions may seem elusive, while in
other cases, you may be fearing the consequences of bad decisions.

As in the earliest days of my recovery, I find it most comforting in
such uncertain times to hold on to what I know to be true. For a
Christian, the unchanging character of God and His sovereignty over
all situations offer the assurance that He is above any circumstances.
It gives us resilience.

Although we can’t predict what our life journey will look like, if it
is done for the honor of God—given to Him for use—we can be confident
of it being used by the Creator to have the greatest impact. The older
I get, the more I realize just how little I can control.

Thanks to my damaged, short-term memory, the initial months after
returning home from hospital included the painful, daily discovery of
my newly-acquired deficits. One time, when I was experiencing the raw,
bitter reality of these losses, I typed a note into my iPhone as a
constant reminder: I hate not being able to run, rock climb, work,
play my instruments like I used to, be as independent as I used to be,
involved in the ministries I used to be, or as social as I used to be
. . . But I’ve currently been called to a very unique, emotionally and
physically strenuous role. May I live each day in a way that is worthy
of this calling.

There isn’t a lot we can control in life, but we can direct our
response to glorify to God, then rest in Him however the situation
plays out.

Picture of Laura meeting the two nurses

