http://ymi.today/2015/12/5-ways-not-to-share-about-christmas/

5 Ways Not to Share about Christmas

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh, Singapore

Ah, it’s Christmas! A perfect time to mark a significant date with
brothers and sisters in Christ. A perfect time to share the gospel and
tell people about the love of God that sent His Son down to earth to
save us from our sins. And a perfect time NOT to…

…insist that every decoration must contain the “true meaning of
Christmas”

Understandably, you get incensed when you see yuletide celebrations
turned into a sordid commercial affair. But please don’t insist that
everyone include some form of the gospel in every single Christmas
decoration, party, and card. Stop lamenting that “Christ is missing in
Christmas”: He should be visibly present in your heart, in your
behavior, and in everything you say and do—not on coffee cups and
Christmas cards.

Forcing the message of Christmas down people’s throats and behaving
like a culture police isn’t going to win anyone over to Jesus; in
fact, it’ll more likely reinforce any perceptions that Christians are
intolerant, dogmatic, and narrow-minded. Rather, be humble in your
approach and attitude, just as the Son of God arrived in the most
humble of circumstances. Show God’s love in your changed life, caring
actions, and encouraging words—that’s the true message of Christmas.

…become an exemplary, loving Christian on 25 December… and go back to
your usual grumpy self the day after

Of course, you’d want to be on your best behavior when there’s an
extra load of visitors in church, and to be especially welcoming to
non-believers who you hope will be touched by God’s love. But that
should be true on 26 December. And 27 December. And every single day
after. It’s all very well to become an exemplary Christian on
Christmas, when the eyes of the world are on believers and watching to
see how you behave. But they’re watching you every day too, to see how
you live, work, play as a Christian.

It’s highly likely that more people than usual turn to God during the
Christmas season, thanks to the more-than-usual number of evangelistic
skits, concerts, and outreach programmes. But what will they think
when they come to church the next Sunday and see all the same
Christians suddenly turn cold and retreat to their exclusive cell
groups?

…make Christmas celebrations a Christian-only affair

Yes, Christians have more reason to be happy about Christmas than
most, and more in common when they celebrate it. It’s tempting to give
fellow Christians bigger gifts or that knowing “WE know what Christmas
is REALLY about” look. But you see, Jesus came to save everyone. His
arrival is a happy, momentous occasion for all men, not just those who
believe in Him. Your mission is to (gently, lovingly) introduce Him to
those who don’t know this yet. And you won’t succeed if you keep non-
Christians out of Christmas.

While we’re on the subject, it’s understandable if you’re extra busy
this season, what with the church skit, evangelistic concerts, and
all. Just take care that you don’t get so caught up with the
preparations that you forget to make time for the very people you want
to reach out to!

…become a fiery Bible-thumping evangelist at every opportunity

Well, of course you should take every opportunity to share the gospel
and be a witness. That’s our Great Commission, after all. But you
don’t need to deliver a fire-and-brimstone sermon at every Christmas
party, putting on a serious face as you lecture all and sundry about
why they should confess their sins this Christmas. After all, we’re
here to share the Good News, not the Rather Serious And Depressing
News.

Be happy! Show your friends that you truly have the joy of the Lord in
your life—that’s the best testimony you can give about God’s presence
in you. Enjoy yourself at gatherings, fellowship with everyone, and
make new friends—that’s the best witness you can give about God’s love
for all men. Remember, Christmas is ultimately about God’s love,
mercy, and grace. Let’s not throw these out as we share the true story
of the season.

…lament about how the Christmas really wasn’t on 25 December, and how
everything about Christmas is all wrong

Surprised? Yes, it probably wasn’t. The shepherds were guarding their
flocks out in the fields; more likely, they wouldn’t have done it in
the middle of winter. But we’ll never really know when exactly Jesus
was born. Yes, you can share this interesting fact, as a way to draw
curious folks into a conversation about Christmas… and Jesus. But
there’s no need to be the pedantic wet blanket and lament about how
everyone’s celebrating Christmas all wrong. You don’t really mind when
your birthday party is celebrated on a convenient weekend before or
after the real date, do you?

Yes, a lot of things about the way Christmas is celebrated today
aren’t ideal. And some traditions are, well, just traditions. But it
doesn’t matter; what is important is that this season gives you a
chance to share the Greatest News of all.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 5 Articles | Giving“

