http://ymi.today/2017/01/why-am-i-afraid-of-sharing-my-faith/

Why Am I Afraid of Sharing My Faith?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Aryanto Wijaya, Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Have you ever been afraid of sharing your faith with others? I have.

When I was in fourth grade, my family and I were the only Christians
in our neighborhood. One day, when I was cycling past a mosque, some
children my age came up to me, blocked my path, and tried to force me
off my bicycle. When I didn’t get off, they started kicking my bike
and tried forcing me to say verses from the Koran. They also accused
me of being an infidel—because I was Chinese and a Christian.

I had no idea how to respond. Thankfully, an adult showed up and
dispersed the children.

Since then, I have always attributed my fear of sharing my faith to
this incident. But after giving it more thought recently, I realized
there were three underlying reasons that stopped me from sharing my
Christian faith.



Where I live, Christians are a minority, so sharing my faith can be a
sensitive thing. On one occasion, my friends gathered for a prayer
meeting at my home. Though we did not play any music or make loud
noises, a neighbor reported us, fearing that our house might become a
church. Two men then came to my house and told us, “Christian
activities are not allowed in a Muslim neighborhood.”

Though that incident fazed me a little, God quickly provided me other
opportunities to share my faith. One time, I was staying at an elderly
woman’s house. On one of the mornings as I was getting ready for
church, she asked me, “Hey, where are you going so early in the
morning?”

I told her honestly that I was going to church. To my surprise, she
expressed curiosity about church, as well as about my faith. It turns
out that she had never met a Christian before! I ended up sharing with
her a little about God and what going to church was like.

Whether or not we realize it, people around us are watching our
actions daily. The way we live could be the very thing that sparks
their interest in our lives and in Jesus Himself. It’s exactly as
Jesus told us, “In the same way, let your light shine before others,
that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven”
(Matthew 5:16).



Whenever I prepared for church each Sunday, my roommates would tease
me, “What for go to church in the morning? It’s better to sleep in . .
.” In their opinion, the best way to spend Sunday morning was to sleep
in, since our weekdays were always packed with so many different
activities.

I admit that peer pressure sometimes got the better of me. When a
friend asked me to go jogging with him one Sunday morning, I gave
in—and attended church in the afternoon instead. I wanted to be
accepted by my peers; and I wanted to be seen as a faithful friend.

I also struggled with what my friends thought of Christianity. Some of
them felt Christianity was “complicated” since there seemed to be so
many rules to follow: tithing, going to Church, Bible reading, etc. To
avoid being seen that way, I hid my faith from my friends.

But God reminded me through my quiet time that I should be focused on
God’s view of me, and not that of my peers. I am precious and honored,
and God loves me (Isaiah 43:4). Jesus sacrificed Himself on the cross
for me. Therefore, I should give everything―my money, energy, and
thoughts―to show my gratitude to the loving God who has saved my life.

So now when my friends ask about it, I tell them I don’t mind going to
church or tithing or serving, because this is an expression of my
gratitude to God.



Some people have told me that Christianity does not make sense. For
example, they ask, how can God have a son? I found myself getting
stumped by some of the questions and sometimes wondered if this was
because I still had doubts myself. As a result, I didn’t make my faith
known to my friends so they wouldn’t ask me about it.

But during church one day, God spoke through the preacher to remind me
that I shouldn’t be so preoccupied with whether I can answer my
friends’ questions. Instead, I should pray for them regularly, that
they may experience the peace of God, which transcends all
understanding (Philippians 4:7).

Sometimes, when we are unable to articulate our faith through words,
we can do so through our actions. I once had a female classmate in
college who did not have any friends. Nobody wanted to be in the same
group as her, so she was lonely all the time. I decided to invite her
to join my group for one of the class projects.

She was surprised and asked me, “Why do you want to be my friend?” I
replied, “God made each of us special. If you are specially made by
God, why should I avoid you just because of some trivial reason?”

I don’t know whether if it was because of my actions or my words, but
since then, she has joined a Christian community and has been growing
in her faith.



Our faith is special. It is not just about us, or about building
churches. Christianity is about a holy and loving God who cares for
sinners.

Being a Christian is a gift we need to be thankful for.  I now
understand that I am Jesus’ disciple, and I no longer worry about
people labeling me as a “Christian”. I am no longer afraid of sharing
my faith. Instead of keeping it to myself, I want to share my story
about Jesus.

Even though people might mock or oppress us when we share our faith,
like my experience in fourth grade, I pray that these words of Jesus
may strengthen us as we follow Him in the midst of our suffering:
“Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult
you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you
because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in
heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were
before you.” (Matthew 5:10-12)

