http://ymi.today/2017/10/how-can-i-love-the-church-that-hurt-me/

How Can I Love the Church that Hurt Me?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ruth Lawrence, UK

Seven days after I came into the world, my dad became the pastor of
the church that I would grow up in. Unlike my siblings, I never knew a
time when my Dad wasn’t a pastor. I quickly learned that people either
hold pastor’s kids to an unreasonably high standard, or wait to see
when they rebel and fall off the rails.

I didn’t like either.

If I could get away with not having to tell people what my dad’s job
was, I would. I did not like being scrutinized. All I wanted was to
figure out what I thought about God and church without an audience. By
the time I was 20, I had reached my conclusion.

I knew the Bible was true, and I had no problem with God. But I didn’t
like Christians, which was slightly problematic seeing as I was one
myself.

I could understand non-Christians hurting people. I could even get my
head round Christians lashing out in the heat of the moment. But
Christians deliberately hurting other Christians?

There had been times as a kid in church when I was the only one who
got told off for something a group of us had done. As I got older, I
listened to people gossip about my family; their caring tones and
concerned faces were merely a cover to finding out what they could
from me. Eventually, I narrowed my world to just me and God. I let
people in so far and no further. I kept hidden the things that were
really important to me as much as I could.

When this kind of hurt led my dad to leave the church we were at, I
decided that I had had enough of Christians. God might love me, but
His people definitely didn’t.

As I found out about other things that had happened in our church over
time—things that were unjust and that hurt my family—my hurt turned to
anger. The more angry I felt, the less I felt I could go to God, and
the more my relationship with Him deteriorated.

I was stuck in limbo. I did not want to walk away from God because I
loved Him and because I knew that the Bible was true. But I did not
want to associate with His church, since that was a painful place to
be. It became so painful that I finally realized that I needed to do
something about my attitude and how I was thinking and feeling.

Passages like Hebrews 10:25 and John 15 convicted me. They told me
that the church is God’s plan. Jesus told His followers to “abide in
my love” (John 15:9), which sounds great, until He explained that to
abide in His love means we have to obey His commandment—to love other
Christians (15:12). That part I’m not so thrilled about, because it
means opening myself up to potential hurt again.

Because I’m still very much working through this, it’s not been
something that I’ve talked about much with my family. But here are a
couple of things I’m finding as I address my flawed thinking:



It may seem obvious, but none of us are perfect, Christian or
otherwise. So we will hurt each other; I hurt people. I can feel as
defensive and hurt about my injuries as I want, but at the end of the
day, I have hurt other people too. I need to be forgiven just as much
as I need to forgive.

In Matthew 18, Jesus answers Peter’s question of how many times we
should forgive people by telling the parable of the unmerciful
servant. The story goes like this. There’s a servant who owed a
massive amount of money to the King which he couldn’t pay back. The
King rightly wanted to throw the man in jail, but the servant pleaded
for mercy. The King, in an amazing act of grace, cancels the servant’s
whole debt. The debt-free servant now bumps into a man who owes him a
small amount of money and demands that the money be repaid then and
there. The man can’t pay, so the debt-free servant throws the man in
jail, ignoring his cries for mercy. Word gets back to the King, who is
royally furious, and he metes out justice and throws the unmerciful
servant in jail.

This story has in some ways haunted me since I was a kid, because I
really wanted grace for myself, but I have a hard time giving it out.
I was thinking about all this recently and I came to the conclusion
that if I met the people who had hurt me and my family back then, I
would want them to know that I didn’t hold it against them.

It’s unlikely that I will ever see them again—life has taken me a long
way from them—but that doesn’t mean that I can’t forgive them.
Forgiving them means not wanting bad for them but praying for their
good. And for the relationships I have with Christians now, it means
being quick to apologize when I get things wrong.



Other people may have been holding me to a higher standard of
behaviour because of who my dad was, but God wasn’t. God holds us all
to the same high standard that none of us can meet. And just as none
of us can meet that standard, all of us are offered grace because of
what Jesus has done for us. Jesus’ blood paid for all of the times we
mess up and hurt each other.

Every time we don’t meet that standard, there is grace to make us
right with God again. So when I feel like that higher standards are
being applied to me, which still happens sometimes, I can put my mind
at rest by reminding myself that Jesus has paid for my sin. I don’t
have to try and earn my way back in. It’s comforting to know that God
isn’t waiting to catch me out, but is waiting with grace and
forgiveness.



I may not like it, but living in this world means that at some point
we will get hurt. What we do with that hurt is what counts. Rather
than burying how I feel and holding on to resentment, I’m trying to
remember what Paul tells us in Ephesians 4:32, that I have been shown
grace for the times I’ve failed.

Because of the mercy shown to me, I am slowly changing how I respond
to people who have hurt me. I’m working on not being quick to judge
but being quick to forgive. It’s hard because that’s not my nature,
and maybe it’s not yours either. It all feels a bit backwards. But God
has shown forgiveness and mercy to me, and in turn I’m trying to do
the same.

Like I said, I’m still working on this, and most of the time I don’t
respond in the way I know I should. But I’m learning to take it back
to God and let Him continue to work on my heart.



I’m a long way from those churches I grew up in, and if I could, I
would still keep my Dad’s job a secret. I’m still afraid of being
hurt, but I’m trying not to let that fear get in the way. Mostly I
fail, but I’ve not given up and I don’t want to. The church is full of
broken people who will hurt one another. But they are also God’s
people, loved and forgiven by Him.

The church is God’s family, that you are welcome to be a part of. It’s
a place that is meant to help us grow in our walk with Jesus, because
it’s easier to keep fighting sin with others than when we try to go it
alone. It’s not a perfect place, but it’s a place that is worth
sticking with. No matter how bad things got or how painful they were,
I didn’t want to give up entirely on the church. And I still don’t.

