http://ymi.today/2015/11/when-god-didnt-heal-me/

When God Didn’t Heal Me

Author: by Contributor

Written By Juan Carlos Tulalian, Philippines

For the past few days, I had been down with a bout of flu.
Fortunately, I was cured after taking some medication. I thank God for
healing me; I believe that divine healing can take place through
medicine. It got me thinking, however, about miracles—and why God
sometimes doesn’t heal us.

When I was young, I followed a Christian television program that
featured an evangelist-faith healer. His miracle-healing ministry
caught my attention and gave me hope that God would heal me of the
abnormality in my right abdomen. Once, the pastor said that if we were
to give such and such amount, the Lord would pour out His blessings,
there would be divine healing and great revival, the gates of heaven
would open to a flood of blessings, and so on and so forth. “Wow!” I
thought. “This is awesome!”

I felt my faith come alive, and immediately gave a pledge of 500
Philippine pesos together with a prayer request. I followed the
pastor’s prayer and believed wholeheartedly that God was going to heal
me and solve all my problems. I was expecting a great miracle,
together with signs and wonders.

But nothing happened. I received no healing, no deliverance, no
revival, and no change . . . nothing. I didn’t stop believing in God,
but I was most disappointed, frustrated and discouraged. “Why was God
delaying?” I asked. “Why didn’t He answer my sincere prayer for a
miracle or divine healing?”

Over time, I became skeptical about miracles. I became someone who
needed evidence before I would believe something I was told. I would
not easily believe claims of a miracle—that the blind could see, the
lame could walk, the deaf could hear—or anything involving
supernatural power. I would not believe anyone who said he saw heaven
or hell, or claimed to have seen signs and wonders.

Years later, I was still asking the same questions. “If God is
sovereign,” I asked, “then why does He seem to limit His power
regarding miracles, divine healing, divine interventions, or signs and
wonders?”

Why we don’t get more miracles

Some believe that God doesn’t give us what we want for two main
reasons: we lack faith, or we have sin. But these reasons didn’t seem
to explain why God doesn’t always give us divine healing. Perhaps, I
thought, there were other reasons.

I started to wonder, do miracles really make our faith stronger? Do
signs and wonders really convince more people to believe in God or in
His existence? Do signs and wonders really convince more people to
believe in God or in His existence?

In the four Gospels, we can see that Jesus didn’t always heal or
perform miracles, signs, and wonders. When He did, the miracles were
shown to selected people and were purposeful—they demonstrated the
Kingdom of God, or showed that helping the poor, sick, or oppressed
people had to be holistic.

In the book of Acts, too, Jesus’ disciples performed miracles, signs,
and wonders in a very purposeful and significant way. The miracles
convinced many people to believe and follow Christ. I do wonder,
though: Did their faith become more rooted? Did all the witnesses of
the miracles take up their cross, deny themselves and follow Jesus?

The right motivation

We may not know or understand why God chooses not to give us miracles
or divine healing. But I do believe that if a heart longs for God’s
power rather than God himself, then it misses the point. If our
relationship with God is based on signs and wonders, we will not have
a true, intimate relationship with Him.

Many of us today are thirsty for miracles, signs, and wonders. We long
to see God’s supernatural power manifested. But we need to avoid
portraying Him like the genie in the bottle who tells its holder,
“Your wish is my command.”

Instead, we need to seek God himself rather than His miracles. Our
relationship with God needs to be based on obedience and not demands.

God can give us miracles if He wants, according to His own will and
purpose. But if we believe in God or love Him only because He performs
miracles, provides healing, and gives us signs and wonders, then we
miss the point. God may use miracles to evangelize, but what is more
important is that people seek Him—with or without any miracle. What
matters to Him is that we worship Him simply because He is God, and
have an intimate relationship and fellowship with Him.

