http://ymi.today/2016/10/when-serving-brought-out-the-worst-in-me/

When Serving Brought Out the Worst in Me

Author: by Contributor

Written by Dominique Gonzaga, Philippines

Growing up in church, I was actively involved in church activities at
a young age. As a youth, I served as a Sunday school teacher as well
as a musician in the worship team. From a young age, I knew that God
had blessed me with gifts so that I could bless others. But head
knowledge proved to be insufficient in my case, and God had to teach
me the hard way.

It all started when my best friend and I became song leaders
simultaneously in our church’s music ministry. During practice
sessions, we would both try to sing louder than the other person
whenever it came to the high notes in the songs. Gradually, this
unspoken competition manifested itself in the form of tension—both in
the room and also in our friendship. I wanted to sing louder and
better than her.

My pride and desire for praise continued to show up in ugly ways. I
began to notice the mistakes and weaknesses of everyone in the band.
During practices, I would get annoyed whenever someone sang off-key or
played a wrong chord. I would sometimes even point out their mistakes
in front of everyone else. But when others tried to give me feedback
about my singing, I simply brushed their comments aside, thinking that
they were either unsupportive or jealous.

One day, my best friend confronted me. She told me she had noticed how
aloof and proud I had become. She said I had been focusing on my own
strength and had failed to give my Creator credit for it.

My immediate reaction was to deny her allegations. I tried to justify
myself, saying that God had given me these talents and gifts, and I
deserved the recognition for using them well. But at the back of my
mind, I knew that all she said was true.

Later on, I was looking through some old college photos. I was
suddenly reminded about one of the tips of photography: focus on one
thing in order to get a sharp image; everything else would be blurred
out.

That’s when everything clicked. I had been doing exactly that—but I
had chosen the wrong subject. Instead of focusing on God, I had put
the focus on myself. I served in ministry only because I wanted the
praises of men. It felt good to be noticed and to be praised by the
people around me whenever I sang. But as a result, everything—other
people, even God—had been relegated to the background.

I had made service all about myself, by striving to be noticed and
known. I realized that I needed to change the way I served God. I had
been so caught up with my pride and all that I could do that I had
forgotten to glorify God for being the giver of these gifts. I had
been so caught up with my pride and all that I could do that I had
forgotten to glorify God for being the giver of these gifts. As a
result, my relationship with Him and the people around me spiralled
downhill.

I decided to make things right and asked God for a renewed and pure
heart to serve Him again. It was hard at first to acknowledge my
mistakes and sins (Psalm 32:5), and ask God for forgiveness (1 John
1:9). There were also many times that I wanted to take the easy way
out by quitting service altogether. But I realized that would not
please God.

So I pressed on, by the grace of God, working on my humility and
refocusing my life and ministry on God. I learned to appreciate the
talents others had and help others who were struggling with the same
issue I faced. I learned to wholeheartedly declare that God alone
deserves all the praise and glory whenever I receive praise or
compliments.

Today, I am still struggling with humility but I know that God
continues to work in me. If you, like me, are struggling with pride, I
pray that God will grant you a heart that is willing to serve Him
humbly and wholeheartedly. May our attitudes bring glory to God and
point others to Him alone.

