http://ymi.today/2015/05/5-ways-to-make-our-moms-happy/

5 Ways to Make Our Moms Happy

Author: by Vania Tan

“Every day is Mother’s Day”, my mother would jokingly say to me every
so often. Having been away from home during my university days and now
living some 10,000 kilometers away from my mom, I couldn’t agree more.
I treasure dearly each moment I get to spend with her.

Mothers, as most of us would agree, are unconditional in their love
towards us and do not expect anything in return. This love in action
is best seen when they sacrifice sleep to care for us, do our laundry,
prepare our daily meals, put up with us through our teenage years and
even nag us to eat more, drink more, and rest more. Since we’ve come
to the time of the year to remember them, here’s some ways to show how
much we appreciate them.

1. Give her a hug

Sometimes, all it takes is a hug, a good squish, or a long embrace to
let her know how much you love and appreciate her. It’s a good
alternative, especially if you find it way out of your comfort zone to
say those three words “I love you.” So what if you’ve never done it
before? There’s always a first time. Catch her by surprise and show
her you care.

2. Write her something

For all you “crafty” people, why not make her a personalized card?
Don’t worry if it doesn’t turn out Hallmark standard, she’ll
appreciate the time and effort you put into it. If you lack the
creativity, simply purchase a card and write something beyond the run-
of-the-mill “HAPPY MOTHER’S DAY” message. If writing a card seems too
daunting or out-dated to you, send her a Whatsapp, SnapChat, or text
message (if she doesn’t own a smartphone). If you are ambitious, make
her a video.

3. Spend time with her

After all, she’s made you her priority for more than a decade. It
could be just for a few hours or even an entire day. Bring her to a
nice place or whip up a meal. Listen to her rant about house chores,
bores, and more. Give her your undivided attention and share your
honest feelings with her. Moms love nothing more than being able to
spend time with their children, to hear what they’ve been up to and
how they feel. For those (like me) who live far away from your mom,
drop her a line.

4. Forgive her

Were there inane or insane things she said before that irked or hurt
you? Take this time to tell her you are over it (if you are, that is).
This might be a challenge for some of us. But if Jesus himself could
forgive those who nailed Him to the cross, what excuse do we have to
not forgive our own moms? This may just be the moment we need to break
down the walls and mend our broken relationship with our moms.

5. Share the gospel with her

Tell her that Jesus loves her, especially if she has yet to know the
Savior. The gospel is, afterall, the greatest gift you can ever give
to her. You could even spend some time to pray with her if you feel
comfortable.

But above and beyond these suggestions, let’s make this Mother’s Day
the beginning of our commitment to love our mothers more. Let’s love
our mothers every day, just as Jesus did, even in His dying moments
(John 19:26-27).



Vania loves to create. But while she would rather click her mouse than
type on her keyboard, she is game to draw parallels in everyday life
to what the word of God says through text. Her name is a natural
conversation starter (although she has heard far too many variations
to it). Just like her name, uniqueness is what she appreciates and
through all her experiences she is able to say that God has made
everyone unique in His own perfect way. Her desire in life is to
continually carry out the love of God through the way she lives and to
others around her.



