http://ymi.today/2017/06/my-fight-against-fomo-2/

My Fight Against FOMO

Author: by Contributor

Written by Michelle Lai, Singapore

Do you have FOMO?

I first heard this acronym in my church last October, when a
university student shared about her struggle to manage her time after
entering university; she had to balance her studies, church
activities, social activities, and quiet time with God.

FOMO stands for “fear of missing out”—in other words, it’s the fear of
not being in the know of what is happening, or missing out on
experiences which others seem to enjoy. You may experience FOMO in its
various forms. For example, you may feel envious of what others have,
so you say yes to every activity without much consideration.

When I heard the student’s sharing, I immediately recognized that I
was struggling with the same thing. Due to some unforeseen
circumstances, I had to take two semesters off university, which meant
missing out on classes, Christian Fellowship (CF), social gatherings,
and other important events.

I remember feeling a wave of sadness when I realized that I was
physically and mentally unable to take part in CF. As part of the
executive community, I was supposed to be in charge of the Bible study
curriculum. Knowing that I would not be able to implement the ideas I
had for the curriculum disappointed me.

Sometimes, I felt so tired that I could not even meet my friends for a
meal. Missing out on a year of school also meant that I would not be
able to celebrate milestones together with them. When they graduated
and started work, I would still be in university. When I saw my peers
moving ahead with their lives, I couldn’t help but feel left behind.

I thought about all the “what ifs” and “what-could-have-beens”. If I
did not have to take this break, I would have been able to complete my
final year in school; I would have been able to contribute to CF; and
most importantly, I would have been able to experience life with my
friends.

As I grappled with these thoughts, I realized that the main reason why
I was sad was that I was not going to graduate together with my peers.
Though my friends tried to encourage me by saying that the extra time
would pass very quickly, my heart was still unhappy and bitter because
I knew that I would not be able to catch up with them.

But by focusing on not being left out, I lost sight of God. I forgot
that serving God and being part of a Christian community was never
about me to begin with. Though I had started out wanting to serve God,
along the way I had become preoccupied about being indispensable to
those around me. I forgot that God does not need anybody to do
anything for Him. However, He delights in us and chooses to partner us
in His work.

Right after that service, I prayed that God would remove FOMO from me
and that I would recognize my feelings of sadness for what they were
and deal with them. I prayed that I would get my priorities right. And
I prayed for my friends and also for the CF even though I could not
participate.

For a few months, I kept praying to God about the sadness I was
feeling. He then opened my eyes to see the situation from another
perspective—that this was my season of rest. He showed me that
honoring Him didn’t just mean serving those around me, but it also
meant resting, slowing down, and taking care of my health so that He
could continue to use me for His glory.

By God’s grace, my condition has improved, and I returned to school a
few weeks ago.

For everyone who fears being left behind, I would like to encourage
you that although you may not always be “relevant” to the people or
activities around you, you will always be relevant to God no matter
what season of life you are in. God will not miss any of us out. you
will always be relevant to God no matter what season of life you are
in. God will not miss any of us out.

Each of us has our own path to walk on earth. Let’s worry about
whether we’re seeking God at every moment instead of worrying about
whether we’re part of the “in” crowd or the latest happening.





