http://ymi.today/2015/10/are-you-unsuccessful-in-church/

Are You “Unsuccessful” in Church?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh, Singapore

You’re active in church. You’re there every Sunday morning, arriving
early to arrange the chairs and set up the worship team’s equipment,
or to help pick up disabled members from their homes and wheel them to
their usual spots in the worship hall.

Or your personal ministry is counselling troubled teens or comforting
lonely old folks, so every week or so, you meet them individually
after service, over a cup of coffee, to listen to their woes and pray
with them. And over the years, they’ve come up to you, one by one, to
thank you and tell you how much you mean to them.

But nobody knows this. Your name doesn’t figure anywhere in thank-you
lists or the Who’s Who in the church newsletter. When they announce
appointments of deacons and leaders, you’re not one of them. When they
name contenders for the Hall of Heroes, your name is missing. Few
people greet you by name. Why, hardly anyone even knows who you are.

“It’s okay,” you tell yourself. “God knows. I don’t need to be known;
it’s okay being low-profile.”

Except . . . it’s not. Not really. Because everyone needs a pat on the
back now and then. Because sometimes, you’re tired of being taken for
granted, and a little recognition and gratitude won’t hurt. You’re not
jealous of the ones who get all the credit and the fame (really!), but
you’re a little weary of doing all the back-end work without being
appreciated.

Hey, we could all do with a little “success” in church (or at work, if
this is true at your workplace too). But it’s not something you seem
to be enjoying.

Remember the story of the man who goes down the beach picking up
starfish stranded on the sand and throwing them back into sea? Someone
asks him, “How you’re going to save all of them? There’re too many.”
He answers, “Yes, but I’m making a difference to this starfish.” The
usual lesson is, you might not be able to save everybody, but you can
save some, one at a time.

Fine. But here’s the thing: Do you remember the man’s name?

Bet you didn’t. No one ever does. He wasn’t mentioned in his church
bulletin or praised at his Sunday services. His pastor doesn’t even
know his name. But to every single starfish he threw back into the
sea, he’s a true savior. They all know exactly who he is. Who is he?
He is the Starfish Picker.

And that’s who you are. Only those whom you help know you. The girl
you counsel every time she breaks down. The old man you help up the
steps every week. To them, you are their world, because you are the
only one who cares. To them, you are their world, because you are the
only one who cares. The crowds may not know your name, but they do.
You are their starfish picker.

“But I’ve only helped five people,” you argue. Maybe it’s one. Maybe,
you think, that’s why few in church notice what you do. But as far as
these five people—or two, or one—are concerned, you are a Godsend. At
night, they thank God for placing you into their lives. Why? Because
you are God’s starfish picker.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Church“

