http://ymi.today/2016/11/my-close-shaves-with-earthquakes/

My Close Shaves with Earthquakes

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joey Choo, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

Before and After the earthquake in 2011, ChristChurch Cathedral Left
photo taken by: Joey Choo

Recently, the news has been abuzz with reports of earthquakes. Just
this morning, I stumbled on news about two earthquakes—one striking
New Zealand and the other Japan. Already, my heart was gripped by news
of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck Christchurch, New Zealand
one week ago.

Although Malaysia (where I’m from) is a disaster-free country, I’ve
had the fortune (or misfortune) of experiencing several strong
earthquakes during my time in other countries. Hence, hearing
earthquake-related news always evokes many memories.

The first time I experienced an earthquake was when I was attending
university in Taiwan in 1999. I had just arrived for a week when 921
Earthquake—as it was locally known—struck. The tragedy in Nantou
County resulted in 2,415 deaths, more than 11,000 people injured, and
29 others missing. More than 50,000 houses collapsed and another
53,000 were damaged. Although I was situated in Taipei, far from the
epicenter, I had a taste of the destructive nature of the earthquake.
I was in my school dormitory at the time when the power supply was
suddenly cut off. All the doors, windows and chairs started rattling
and I almost got thrown off my seat.

When I watched the news the next day, I saw images of the devastation:
buildings had collapsed and bodies had been buried under the rumble.
As a result of the quake, many people lost their homes and loved ones.
How helpless and small we human beings are when faced with the force
of nature! It made me realize how fragile life is, regardless of who
we are and what we’ve achieved. All that we have accumulated can be
easily wiped out in one swift disaster. The Bible is spot on when it
says, “What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world, yet
forfeit their soul? Or what can anyone give in exchange for their
soul?” (Matthew 16:26) Indeed, it’s not worth exchanging our precious
lives with the temporal things of this world.

That was just one episode. During my five years in Taiwan, disasters
happened almost every year. In addition to earthquakes, there were
also typhoons and the outbreak of the Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome (also known as SARS) epidemic. One of my most harrowing
experiences was when a 6.8 magnitude earthquake struck Hualien on 31
March, 2002. The effects of the quake were even felt at one of its
most iconic landmarks in Taipei—where the skyscraper Taipei 101 is
situated.

Then, the skyscraper was still under construction and the strong
tremors sent a large crane on the 56th floor crashing down to ground
level, crushing many cars and killing people in the process. Standing
a few hundred meters away, I saw the surrounding buildings swaying and
witnessed that horrific episode with my own eyes; it was a scene I
would never forget.

Years later, I had another close shave with an earthquake. It was 4
September 2010 and I was on a working holiday in New Zealand’s South
Island. Then, I was living in a small town close to Christchurch and
planned to move downtown to look for a job.  A friend of mine from
Nelson (more than 400km north of Christchurch) came to visit me out of
the blue and invited me to look for a job in the north where she
lived. I was clueless as to what to do. As I prayed, God impressed on
me to leave Christchurch and follow my friend. That’s how I got away
unscathed once again—this time from a devastating earthquake that hit
Christchurch two weeks later.

ChristChurch Cathedral the day after the February 2011 earthquake
collapsed its spire. Photo taken from: Wikipedia



After the earthquake in Christ Church City Center. Photo By: Joey Choo



It was truly God’s miraculous protection and guidance that saved me
each time and I can say confidently that our God is true and
trustworthy. Just as Psalm 46:1-3 says, “God is our refuge and
strength, an ever-present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear,
though the earth give way and the mountains fall into the heart of the
sea, though its waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with
their surging.” These close brushes have deeply impressed on me the
need to trust and depend on God, because He alone is the true creator
and holds our lives in His hands. These close brushes have deeply
impressed on me the need to trust and depend on God, because He alone
is the true creator and holds our lives in His hands.

Whenever earthquakes or natural disasters occur, I am also reminded
that the end times are near. “Nation will rise against nation, and
kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places,
and famines. These are the beginning of birth pains” (Mark 13:8). As
such, I need to be watchful, pray, and to preach the gospel because
the Lord’s return is near. I pray that every child of God will learn
to worship Him reverently, and give all glory and honor to the Lord
Almighty.

