http://ymi.today/2015/12/how-should-we-respond-to-illness/

How Should We Respond to Illness?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Julia Lee, Singapore

As a medical social worker, I provide support to people who have
suffered the loss of physical ability, mental capacity, or both. In my
course of work, I’ve come across many patients and family members who
face difficult circumstances because of their illnesses. Here are some
examples:

A young man cannot work due to extensive nerve damage that cannot be
rectified despite several years of treatment. At what should have been
the prime of his life, he is mostly home-bound, as he experiences
bouts of pain almost on a daily basis. His family, meanwhile,
struggles with paying off debts from his exorbitant medical bills and
caring for his physical and emotional needs and managing his
depression.

A middle-aged woman with a psychotic disorder throws tantrums that are
directed at her children, displays unpredictable mood swings at home,
and has delusions about her husband being an abusive man. She had
responded well to initial treatment, but struggles with what it means
to be a psychiatric patient. Her refusal to take the required
medication continues to be a daily source of tension between her and
her family.

A man with treatment-resistant schizophrenia is experiencing decline
in his cognitive abilities as the illness progresses. He has lived in
an institution for most of his life, as his family is unable to care
for him at home. Over the years, his family members have stopped
visiting him, and are now uncontactable. However, he remains cheerful
and helpful while living in an institution.

An elderly woman is wheelchair-bound and has a fear of leaving her
home after she broke several bones from multiple falls. She lives
alone with her domestic helper; even though she has children,
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, they are seldom involved in
her life. She copes with her loneliness by calling friends and
volunteers over the phone for chats, and watches television to pass
time.

These real-life narratives have got me thinking about how people
responded to physical or mental illnesses in biblical times. One
character who went through immense suffering is Job, who was inflicted
with painful sores, among other things. When he cried out in distress,
his friends gave him poor advice; as a result, Job came close to
blaming God for his misfortunes. Eventually, however, he recognized
that God was the one who gave him everything in life. He continued to
praise and worship God, and at the end, God blessed him with family
and possessions beyond what he used to have.

In the New Testament, we also read of people with physical and mental
ailments, such as the blind, the lame, and lepers, who faced
discrimination by society. Interestingly, however, why and how they
got their illness was never the key subject—the glorification and
sovereignty of God was. In the account of the man blind from birth,
Jesus said that he was born this way so that the “works of God might
be displayed in him” (John 9:3).

Today, we have the privilege of hindsight and can see why some people
were plagued with illnesses and how their sufferings ended. But it’s a
lot harder to accept or understand when we are living through it, or
when people close to us are facing illnesses. Many people struggle to
make sense of their illnesses, and worry about how long they have to
endure the illness, and how their lives would turn out.

Having struggled through such adversities with my patients and their
families, I’ve learned that what’s important is how people respond to
their illnesses and try to make sense of them. Having struggled
through such adversities with my patients and their families, I’ve
learned that what’s important is how people respond to their illnesses
and try to make sense of them. How they react can make their situation
better or worse.

As Christians, we can respond by turning to God and putting our hopes
in Him. We may not be healed instantly—or possibly not at all—but like
Job, we can keep depending on Him and trusting in Him. And because He
is a loving God, He will give us the strength to bear with our
sufferings, and walk with us every step of the way.

One of the most striking things about Job’s story is not that he was
eventually healed and restored, but that he was able to keep praising
God despite his suffering—it was his continued faith amid pain and
grief that was his biggest testimony. When we continue to trust in
God, we glorify Him.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Social Issues“

