http://ymi.today/2016/12/i-want-a-comfortable-life-anything-wrong/

I Want a Comfortable Life—Anything Wrong?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Julian Panga

Julian grew up in India and then lived in Australia for 12 years.
While working in the Banking and Finance Industry in Melbourne, he
also served as a church elder, missions trainer and bible teacher. In
2014, he returned to India in response to God’s calling and is
currently involved in training Christian workers for effective
ministry within the Indian context. He loves reading, listening to
music and long country drives.



What is a comfortable life? Is it having just enough to live, a little
bit more than enough, or much more than you need?

Over the years, the definition of a comfortable life has changed. To
the older generation, putting food on the table, making both ends
meet, and having a little bit of savings for a rainy day made for a
comfortable life. To the current generation however, these are the
bare necessities.

I remember the time my parents could only afford a motorbike—which
most small families in India use for their daily commute. Some years
back, I decided to buy them a small second-hand car with my savings.
But they felt that the car was unnecessary, and saw it as a luxury
they didn’t need. In their minds, savings were to be tucked away for
something important. In my mind, however, the car was an absolute
necessity.

This probably reflects the prevailing sentiment today. Nowadays, it is
common or even necessary to get a bigger and better home or car,
upgrade to the latest smartphone, or go on expensive holidays. If you
walk down the streets of any metropolitan city in India (which has the
world’s largest number of 10 to 24-year-olds), it’s common to hear
people say, “I am a working adult, so I can afford a better
lifestyle”, or “What is wrong with enjoying a comfortable life? It’s a
personal choice and doesn’t hurt anybody”. Indian youth, along with
young people all over the world, are adopting a lifestyle of more—more
money, more comfort, and more luxury.

In my observation however, the ones who do have more than they need
have never appeared genuinely happy. On the other hand, those who
seemingly have less—such as the family of six with meagre belongings
squeezed into a rundown shack in a Johannesburg slum, or the family of
five struggling to get their next meal, in a 10-by-10-foot hut in an
urban slum in Bangalore, India—have bigger smiles and hearts than
those who have plenty. That, to me, reinforces the fact that riches
and comforts can never buy true happiness.

That said, this observation hardly deter us—even Christians—from
seeking more in life. So, it begs the question: Is there anything
wrong with desiring a comfortable life?

To answer this question, I’d like to reflect on these five aspects of
life:



Let’s start by looking at two popular understandings of a comfortable
life: one with just the bare essentials and one with excessive
luxuries. While the Bible does not have anything against us seeking
the basic essentials of life like food, clothing and shelter, it is
worthwhile to note that Jesus tells us not to worry even about these
things, since the Father knows that we need them and will give them to
us if we only ask (Matthew 6:25-34, 7:7-11). The Lord’s Prayer puts it
aptly: Give us today our daily bread. The lesson here is to depend on
God and Him alone for our daily needs.

What the Bible does condemn, however, is the love of money and the
pursuit of riches. An inordinate desire for luxurious living can drive
a person to pursue riches at any cost. This obsession can have dire
implications, as Jesus spoke about the ease with which a camel can go
through the eye of a needle compared to a rich man entering God’s
kingdom (Luke 18:24-25).

If getting comfortable means we rely on ourselves more than God and
causes pride, ego and self-sufficiency to grow, then we ought to steer
clear of it. Having a comfortable life, however, is not sinful per se.
What matters is whether we channel our riches for the benefit of
others rather than ourselves. For when we do that intentionally, we
truly show our dependence upon God.



In Luke 9:58, Jesus said that the foxes have holes and the birds of
the air have nests but the Son of Man does not have any place to lay
down His head. Here, Jesus was talking about how He Himself lacked
even the basic necessities of life. Yet, that didn’t deter Him from
preaching and teaching, healing the sick, providing for the poor and
uplifting the destitute, marginalized and helpless. He went about His
Father’s mission and didn’t get too comfortable along the way.

Are we not involved in God’s mission ourselves? Yes, we are and it is
a lifelong mission that requires our wholehearted attention and
commitment. So, if our earthly comforts distract or deter us from
aligning ourselves with God’s mission in the world, then we need to
pause, reflect and realign our lives with God’s heart. Keeping God’s
mission at the center of our lives helps us be more focused on eternal
rewards than temporary gains.



In the account of the rich young ruler (Mark 10:17-27), Christ’s
response to his question about how to inherit eternal life was to
follow the commandments—to which he responded that he had kept all of
them very diligently from his youth. Jesus then pointed out that while
he may have had kept those commands that dealt with his relationship
with his neighbours, he had grossly neglected the ones that talked
about his relationship with God. Simply put, he loved his riches more
than he loved God and that drastically impacted his relationship with
God. The heart of the issue was an issue of his heart, and as the
story goes, he went away sad, unwilling to rectify it.

In Matthew 6:24, Jesus also said that one cannot serve both God and
money. That person would love one and hate the other, or be devoted to
the one and despise the other. So, if a comfortable life is one that
is focused on money and hinders us from knowing and experiencing God
more intimately, then we run the risk of losing our first love and
becoming alienated from Him. God deserves nothing less than our
wholehearted devotion.



Jesus didn’t think twice when He took off His outer clothes, took a
basin of water and a cloth and stooped down to wash His disciples’
feet (John 13:1-17). He practically demonstrated what true humility is
and how we ought to consider others better than ourselves. Like Jesus,
our attitude should be one of honoring God wholeheartedly, living
selflessly and giving generously.

So rather than amassing wealth or comfort for ourselves, why don’t we
make use of readily available opportunities around us to show love and
serve those who are less privileged among us? It is, after all, our
God-given responsibility to take care of the poor, downtrodden,
marginalized, orphaned and widows among us. Faith demonstrated through
sacrificial service keeps our lives uncluttered and our hearts willing
and pliable for the Master’s use.



Nowadays, it’s nearly impossible to remain content in a world that
promotes self-gratification. King Solomon, in Ecclesiastes 5:10, said
that he who loves money never has enough money, and whoever loves
wealth is never satisfied. But just as the Apostle Paul learned to be
content in whatever circumstances (Phil 4:11), we can also learn to be
content if we begin by being grateful for God’s blessings. Rather than
worry about what we don’t have, let’s be satisfied with what God has
given us.



After spending 12 years in Australia, where I had a lucrative job and
lived a comfortable life, I gave up all that in response to God’s call
and returned to India to serve in Christian ministry. I am often
asked: Why did I make such a decision and take this huge step
“backward”—as some have called it?

It is because I’ve realized that the things of this world will never
satisfy. They only keep us craving for more, eventually leading us on
a downward spiral of disappointment, disillusionment and destruction.
I’ve found that I can only find true purpose and satisfaction when I
fix my eyes on the Lord—the source of all that I have.

So at the end of the day, the question is not whether we can live
comfortably, but whether we are living a life that truly pleases and
honors God in every way.

