http://ymi.today/2015/12/christmas-not-just-another-celebration/

Christmas: Not Just Another Celebration

Author: by Contributor

Written By Immanuela Asa Rahadini, Singapore

I have always lived in countries that have only two seasons: dry and
wet. So to me, December has always been about Christmas and cool,
rainy days, making it the best time of the year.

Interestingly, what we know of Christmas involves snow, Santa Claus,
reindeer, and Christmas trees. Of course, it is fun to see cute and
fluffy snowmen in public spaces. However, as I grew up, I realized
that this notion of Christmas was nothing more than a commercial
strategy that companies employ to create the yuletide atmosphere to
generate profits.

Retailers rake in huge earnings in the Christmas season. Shopping
centers can double their revenues by holding Santa Claus meet and
greets and decorating themselves with fake mistletoe and artificial
snow to get consumers into the mood, so that they will empty their
pockets. We too can fall into this trap, as we busy ourselves putting
up excessive decorations and shopping extravagantly.

Sometimes, even these modern “traditions” get thrown out for something
more trendy and marketable. Last year, when the “Frozen” fever was at
its peak, snowmen were replaced by Olaf, and Santa Claus overshadowed
by Elsa and Anna. This year, many decorations feature the Star Wars
theme, as the latest fan movie gets extra billing. Next year, it will
probably be another blockbuster movie.

All these may depict what is trending for the season, but none of them
represents the true meaning of Christmas. The recent hoo-ha over
Starbucks’ plain red cup reminded me that Christmas is more than just
about wishes, decorations, and coffee cups with cool designs.

Christmas is not about worldly, temporal joy. As Christians, I believe
that there are only two things we should be focused on: Jesus, and the
salvation of mankind. That’s all. If our celebrations are not Christ-
oriented, how different are we from non-believers?

To get a sense of the awe and joy that Christmas should evoke in us,
let’s go back to the very first Christmas. To get a sense of the awe
and joy that Christmas should evoke in us, let’s go back to the very
first Christmas. Then, the shepherds came to Bethlehem to worship the
newborn Jesus. Later, the wise men would bring presents for Him. They
were joyful and thankful because they recognized that a Savior had
been born. They were thrilled by His birth.

Christmas is not just another celebration. It is the ultimate
celebration of the eternal gift of Jesus Christ to sinners—us. His
birth redefines our lives eternally. This Christmas, let’s spend time
being witnesses to the joy of His birth to the world. Let’s prepare
our hearts for His second coming, and spend time bonding with our
families and helping the homeless.

Let’s celebrate Christmas humbly and joyfully welcome the Savior into
our hearts. May this Christmas be a Christ-filled one. Blessed
Christmas!

