https://ymi.today/2018/01/the-pitfall-of-comparison/

The Pitfall of Comparison

Author: by Agnes Lee

I can’t stop comparing myself to others. “Is he smarter than me? Is
she prettier than me? Does she have more friends than I do?” While it
can sound like an innocent habit, I ended up being sucked into it,
unable to be thankful for whatever I had.

It started when I was a child. In my country, there is strong emphasis
on education, and  naturally, my parents wanted me to do well in my
studies. Being in a competitive environment where everyone would try
their best to outdo each other, I studied hard. At the back of my
mind, I was always thinking, “Did I do better than my cousins or my
friends?”

As a teenager transiting into adulthood, my focus shifted. I compared
my physical appearance to others’.  At my first job, I compared my
salary with my friends’. I looked at the material possessions they
had—their new clothes and new cars—and wondered if I could afford the
same things.

Once I started, I could not stop. I found myself comparing every
single detail about myself with others.  I became a perfectionist and
developed a severe fear of missing out (FOMO). I wanted to be just as
beautiful and rich as my friends were.

Blinded by the god of the world, I mistakenly thought these things
would make me feel better. I worked hard to obtain what I wanted but
my heart only felt emptier after. I craved for more and it became an
endless pursuit that left me more tired than satisfied. I didn’t occur
to me that I needed something magnificent and eternal—God—to fill the
void in my heart.

In the end, my toxic habit of comparison made me lose a good friend of
mine. At my first job, I got to know another lady who was a fresh
graduate just like myself.  We joined the same department and were
tasked to do the same role at work. We learned the ropes together and
everything seemed to be going well.  However, I couldn’t stop
comparing myself to her.

While I seemed like her good friend on the outside, I secretly
disliked her. She was tall, slim, and beautiful, while I was short and
average looking.  She was friendly and sociable, while I was reserved
and quiet.  Our colleagues seemed to like her more than me.  The more
popular she got, the more bitter I became. “Why is she better at
everything that I am? That’s not fair,” I would think to myself.

Jealous of how she seemed to have everything going well in her life, I
started ignoring her and giving her strange glances.  I could not
accept that I was inferior to her.

She was naturally puzzled and angry by my actions and our friendship
soon soured.  Fed up with my behavior, she started ignoring me and
voiced her displeasure of me to others. We were no longer on talking
terms, and soon, I felt like a loner in the company. I left the
organization and lost contact with everyone there.



Many years later, after I came to know the Lord, I was reflecting on
my quiet time passage from 1 Corinthians 12:15-18.  It struck me that
all of us are different from each other for a reason—it allows us play
a different role in the Body of Christ. That way, no one is more
important than another.

It dawned upon me that my habit of comparison was not biblical since
each member of the body is meant to be unique, so that the Body of
Christ can function as one. Whatever traits I had were meant to enable
me to contribute in a special capacity to the Kingdom of God.

I had allowed my insecurities, low self-esteem, and lack of self-love
to consume me. The real problem was not that others were better than I
am. It was with my own negative perception about myself. The real
problem was not that others were better than I am. It was with my own
negative perception about myself.

Psalm 139:13-14 gave me great reassurance. It says I am fearfully and
wonderfully made by my Creator. God Himself formed my inward parts and
knitted me together in my mother’s womb. My seemingly “negative
traits” were not mistakes that He made—How I am is exactly the way God
intended.

God has given us different gifts and talents (Romans 12:6a) along with
different looks. His thoughts and wisdom are higher than ours (Isaiah
55:8-9) and He has planned a unique life for each of one of us that
only we can live.

A life of endless comparison is not in His plan for us. Rather than
wasting our lives away in such a manner and wallowing in self-pity, we
can choose to surrender our lives to God, trusting in His plan.  When
we anchor our identity in Him, we can be secure and will not be easily
shaken by the world.

As I became convicted by this truth, I found myself increasing my love
for God. His views became mine and I wanted to do His will and love
those around me. I thank God that He has increasingly freed me from my
natural tendency to compare myself to others.  His Word is like a lamp
to my feet (Psalm 119:105) leading me out of the darkness of
comparison. Whenever I think of comparing myself with others, I will
remind myself of His truth from the living Word, of His sovereign will
and unique plans for me during my limited time on earth.

Overtime, my relationships with others have improved. Although it is
sad that my ex-colleague and I are no longer friends, I hope to meet
her again someday to apologize to her, with hopes of eventual
reconciliation.

Instead of a worldly FOMO, I have developed a holy FOMO—a fear of
missing out God in my life. I now place pleasing God as my first
priority. Tasting the kind of joy and freedom that only He can give, I
never want to give Him up again for the life of darkness and
comparison.



Agnes once scored a “D” for English, so she never imagined that she
could write. But after she experienced God’s redemptive power through
an unexpected interruption in life, she felt prompted to write to
share about the goodness of God, and to bring comfort and hope to
those around her. She is quiet most of the time and loves reading or
taking long walks on her own but can be easily tempted out of her
hermit mode with ice-cream, cakes, cookies, and most things sweet.



