http://ymi.today/2017/10/where-do-you-place-your-worth/

Where Do You Place Your Worth?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Daniel Ng, Singapore

I’m a jokester. God has gifted me with the ability to lighten up a
tense atmosphere and cheer people up. But like so many others, I have
used this God-given talent to glorify myself instead of Him.

To me, the more laughs I get, the greater my value. It strikes at the
heart of me when I don’t get that coveted “hahaha”. As sad as it
sounds, the truth is that I find my worth in my ability to draw
laughter from others.

What about you? Where do you find your worth? In treasured
possessions? In achievements and accolades? In relationships?

I believe that our choices lie at the core of our very being, and they
are inseparable from our identity. The choices that we make in our
lives, big or small, go a long way in defining who we are.

Whether we are choosing what to study in university, or our marriage
partner, or even what to wear to school in the morning, our choices
are based on what we value, the things that we deem “of worth”.

The problem comes when we blur the lines between what we value and
what our value is. Don’t get me wrong—I’m all for striving hard for
excellence in the careers and studies that God has so graciously
gifted us. However, when we allow our careers or grades to define our
worth, we’re paving the way to disappointment.

The truth is, everybody makes mistakes, and there will be times when
we don’t meet our own expectations. We’ll also find that the people or
things we so dearly hold on to fail us.

If my worth is in my relationship with my girlfriend, what happens
when we break up? If my worth is in the number of likes I get on
Instagram, what if I don’t get those likes? If my worth is in the
number of A’s on my report book, what if I fail my exams?

I can tell you what happens then. I feel like trash. I feel worthless.



In my quest to ground my worth properly, I ask myself this: What
matters the most? I formulated a question to help my search: If
________ wasn’t present, the universe would not go on.

Go on. Try to fill in that blank. I’ve tried it myself and I’ve found
that the only answer that begins to make sense is “God.” It’s not my
girlfriend. It’s not my grades. And it definitely isn’t the number of
likes I get on Instagram. It’s God.

Philosophers sometimes say that God is the only necessary being in the
universe. This simply means that without this Almighty God who created
the universe and sustains it, the universe would not go on.

Since He’s the only One who matters, it would only make sense that we
place our worth in God’s expectations of us. However, the Bible tells
us in Romans 3:10-12 that every single one of us misses the mark of
God’s good expectations. There is nothing we can do to make ourselves
better or more desirable before a Holy God.

And with that, we’re back to square one. Since we fail to measure up
to the only standard that matters, I guess we’re worthless then.



Now here comes the truly liberating mystery at the heart of
Christianity. John 3:16 tells us that God, in His love, sent His Son
to the world so that we wouldn’t perish like worthless dust. While we
were still sinners, He came to die for us and give us eternal life. He
came to give us worth in God’s eyes. I get goose bumps every time I
think of this.

If that isn’t enough to overwhelm you, in Philippians 2:6-8, we read
of how Jesus humbled Himself. He is the infinite God, but humbled
Himself to the form of a puny created being. He didn’t come as a king
in riches, but came to be born in a stable as a helpless infant. This
great God came to die in one of the most humiliating ways possible—to
hang on a cross while people mocked Him.

We have no more reason to feel and say: “I’m not good enough.” Neither
do we have any reason to get caught up in our failures. To me, that is
truly liberating. So now, I no longer study hard because my grades
define my worth; I study hard because studying itself is a gift from
God. And I want to show Him that I love and appreciate this gift. When
it comes to relationships, I don’t put in effort because they
determine my value, I do so because my friends are a gift from my
loving God. It is only when we start to see our worth in light of
God’s loving sacrifice that we will be able to give thanks, even in
the midst of breakups, failures, and rejection.

Anything—other than the blood of Jesus—that we use to define our own
worth is a sweet lie we tell to comfort ourselves. Our worth is not
based on money or self-praise or even the “good Christian” things we
do. Our only worth is our faith that the God of the universe died for
worthless me, and I cling on to that fact. What a wonderful mystery
this is—how we can be so unworthy and worthy at the same time when we
stand before such a great God!

