http://ymi.today/2016/11/why-did-god-create-a-world/

Why did God Create a World that He Knew was Going to Go Wrong
eventually?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh

After spending a number of years in the media, Leslie finally decided
to move from working with bad news to good news. He believes in the
power of words (especially when they’re funny). He works as an editor
in Our Daily Bread Ministries.



This introduction that you’re reading now is really my third. Twice, I
wrote a few paragraphs, only to remove them after finding that they
were going nowhere.

Despite having spent a couple of hours coming up with the first two
versions, it wasn’t really difficult to click on “delete”. I mean, why
continue something that is flawed?

Which makes me wonder, why didn’t God do the same thing with creation?
When God created the heavens, the earth and everything else, it was
all perfect. Seven times, Genesis 1 observes that God saw that “it was
good”. Then everything went wrong (thanks, Adam and Eve), and here we
are, living in a far-from-perfect world that is pretty much destined
for destruction.

Now we know God is omniscient ie. He is all-seeing and all-knowing, of
everything as well as of what will happen in the past, present, and
future. That means He would surely have known that Adam and Eve would,
at some point, decide to disobey Him. He would have known that this
sin would condemn not just the duo, but succeeding generations of
mankind, along with the earth.

So why didn’t He “delete” the earth and start all over again? After
all, another six days’ work wouldn’t have been too difficult, would
it? Of course, you could argue that knowing man, Creation 2.0 would
probably have gone down the same route, anyway. So the question is,
why did God bother at all? Why create a world that He knew was going
to go wrong eventually?

I’m not going to pretend that this is an insightful question of mine;
it’s probably one of the most-often asked questions among Christians.
And I’m not going to give the impression that it led me to study the
Bible carefully and come up with biblically, logically and
theologically sound explanations. To be honest, all I did was to read
a bit to see what has been discussed about this question, and to try
to re-frame it so I could understand it better myself.

I also wasn’t looking for a watertight answer that even the staunchest
atheist or strongest cynic couldn’t refute. (So, yes, please feel free
to disagree.) No, I was just looking for some possible answers—a new
perspective, if you will, on the question. After all, the Bible
doesn’t say explicitly why God decided to continue putting up with the
flawed humans that were corrupting His creation, or why He created the
world even though He knew it would go wrong.

Before going into why God decided to proceed with Creation, however, I
figured that it would help to narrow the scope of the discussion by
considering (and dismissing) several alternative options to explain
what happened. As a believer, I kept to the basic assumption that God
is good and that He is perfect.



One, God made creation perfect, but somehow it went wrong, and He had
to get His Son to do a quick rescue job. On the surface, this might
seem plausible. Genesis 1 doesn’t tell us that God anticipated any
problems; you can even imagine Him nodding satisfactorily at the end
of each of the first six days, saying, “That’s good”, then sighing
sadly days later when Adam and Eve take those fatal bites into the
forbidden fruit.

But to say that creation didn’t quite turn out as expected suggests
that God had lost control of His product. Keeping the assumption that
God is sovereign, all-powerful and all-knowing, I felt I had to
dismiss this option. If God wasn’t in full control . . . then
everything I believe would come apart. Next!



Two, God made creation such that this would happen, so He could send
His Son to earth to show His glory. This idea might seem to fit in
with why God made creation (“The heavens declare the glory of God; the
skies proclaim the work of his hands”— Psalm 19:1). It suggests that
like a director of a dramatic movie, God somehow arranged it all such
that man would sin, and He would send His Son down to show His mercy
and love.

Except that . . . this would be tantamount to saying that God created
sin; that He made everything good, then deliberately arranged for
things to fall apart, just so that He could show His mercy and grace.
And that would make God seem a little manipulative. The Bible,
however, makes it clear that God is good (Psalm 107:1, 1 Timothy 4:4,
James 1:17), so let’s dismiss this option too.



Three, God made creation knowing that it would rebel against Him one
day—but He made it anyway. This third option keeps to the assumption
that God is good and perfect; it’s like having a good parent who
raises a child perfectly, only to see this child become a rebel. Of
course, this option leads us back to the original question: Since God
knew that the world would turn against Him, why did He bother creating
it?



You could have endless discussions (and arguments) over this, and it
would be hard to come to a definitive conclusion that would be
acceptable to most. But a little reading threw up the following three
points which I felt appealed to my sense of logic and reasonable-ness,
and most importantly, were also consistent with what we know about
God. They aren’t necessarily answers to the difficult question; I saw
them more as perspectives that helped me address the question. You be
the judge.



This sounds a bit like option 2 above, but with one difference: God
didn’t make the Fall of Man happen (because that would suggest He made
man sin), though He knew it would. But He allowed to happen so that we
could see His glory and experience His grace and mercy. The Bible
tells us that God’s ultimate purpose in everything is to have Christ
the Son rule over everything, so that the Father is glorified. “With
all wisdom and understanding, he made known to us the mystery of his
will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to
be put into effect when the times reach their fulfillment—to bring
unity to all things in heaven and on earth under Christ” (Ephesians
1:8-10).

It would be hard to fully define what God’s glory means, but it
includes His greatness and all His attributes, such as holiness,
justice, love, mercy, and grace—all of which were manifested through
the story of Creation. Through the creation of the world, we see God’s
greatness and power. Through His judgment of sin, we see His justice
and holiness. And through Christ’s redeeming work on the cross, we see
the Father’s love, mercy, and grace.

So you could say that allowing mankind to make that choice to obey or
rebel against Him served God’s purpose. Of course, that might beg the
questions: Could God’s glory have been manifested if He had not
allowed the world to rebel against Him? Couldn’t He have been
glorified in another way? In other words, did God need the world to
fall to show His glory?

Well, I believe this question is too hypothetical to come up with a
satisfactory answer. We could become indignant and demand to know why
God didn’t show His glory another way. But we’d also have to remember
that He didn’t make man sin; it was Adam and Eve who chose to disobey
God themselves. And because of it, and what happened later, we got to
see and understand God’s holiness and justice, and experience His love
and grace.



If you think about it, God really didn’t have to create the world—or
us. As a self-sufficient and complete God, He doesn’t need a world to
support Him, nor anyone to keep Him in power. He isn’t even lonely;
the Holy Trinity is, after all, made up of Father, Son, and Holy
Spirit.

Yet God made man because He wanted to have a relationship with us. He
could have stopped at creating the universe, the earth, the plants,
and the animals (and have a two-day weekend), but He went on to the
sixth day to make man. How is man different? We are created “in his
own image” (Genesis 1:27) ie. unlike His other creations, we have some
of His attributes. That enables us to relate to Him in a way that
other creations can’t. God doesn’t need us to keep Him company, but He
wants to enjoy our company. In Genesis 1:31, after making man, God
noted that “it was very good”—the previous days, it was merely “good”.

Why did God create the world even though He knew it would go south?
Because He desired a loving relationship with man, and was ready to be
patient, forgiving, and merciful when man failed. Compare that to a
couple who have a child. They already have each other for company, but
they desire the companionship of an addition to the family. And even
though they know that this child will be naughty, flawed, and
rebellious, the hope of the joy that this child brings is worth the
heartbreak and the pain.

Of course, here’s where we could ask: So why didn’t God create human
beings that couldn’t sin? Why did He give them the choice?



Why does a couple choose to have a child and not a robot? Easy—the
robot won’t love back. A relationship is meaningful not only when it’s
two-way, but also when either party chooses to stay in it. Love cannot
be forced or controlled; otherwise it’s no better than slavery or
forced loyalty.

Why was the father of the prodigal son in the well-known parable so
overjoyed to see his son return (Luke 15:11-24)? Because the son had,
of his own accord, chosen to repent and to return to his father. The
latter had not forced nor bribed his son to come back; that was what
made the young man’s repentance and love even more valuable to the
father.

That’s why God calls us His children, and not His servants. If He had
made man such that we had no choice but to obey Him, our “love” and
“loyalty” would not mean much to Him. No, He wanted us to decide for
ourselves if we wanted to love Him back. So He made us with a free
will, the ability to choose whether to follow His instructions or not.

That may also explain why God put the tree of knowledge of good and
evil (Genesis 2:17) in the Garden of Eden in the first place. That’s
one question I always had—why did God have to plant it there? Was He
not tempting Adam and Eve? Did He not know they would eat from the
very tree they weren’t supposed to? Some Bible teachers have posited
that the tree represented the choice that God was giving to the first
couple. It was as if He was telling them, “In case you complain that
you have no choice but to obey Me, here’s an option you can take. I’m
making it clear that you’re not to take it, but the decision is still
yours.” The tree of knowledge of good and evil was thus a test.

(If we argue that God was being unfair in putting this temptation in
the Garden, consider this thought: There must have been thousands
(maybe even more) of fruit trees that Adam and Eve could eat from, but
they had to eat from the one forbidden one.)

Christian writer Max Lucado, in his book In the Eye of the Storm,
paints a beautiful portrait of the day God made man. He imagines God
putting a “seed of choice” into a lump of clay that he will soon bring
to life. A watching angel asks if this is wise, and God answers by
showing the angel a glimpse of a future in which man will rebel and
forget his Maker. “Wouldn’t it be easier to not plant the seed?
Wouldn’t it be easier to not give the choice?” the angel then asks.
“It would,” God replies. “But to remove the choice is to remove the
love.”

If you’re still not entirely convinced, I don’t blame you. It can be
hard to wrap our heads around an issue that packs so many apparent
contradictions in logic and invites even more “what-ifs”. Every answer
is likely to lead to 10 other questions. After all, we’re talking
about an issue that is beyond human comprehension.

Some would quote Deuteronomy 29:29—“The secret things belong to
the Lord our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our
children forever, that we may follow all the words of this law”—to
stress that it’s simply impossible to understand some of God’s actions
and decisions. But I believe that these three perspectives do offer
some measure of logic to understand why God still proceeded with
Creation despite knowing what would happen. They may not link up like
a mathematical equation, but they help us to see that what God did was
entirely consistent with His purpose and character.

I suppose it’s a bit like trying to get to grips with a decision that
a good friend has made, but which you simply don’t understand (say,
like him taking an unusual job). You may not be fully convinced—at
least for now—that he did the right thing, but what you can do is try
to see the situation from his point of view and understand what
prompted him to make his choice. And if you know him well, you will
trust that the choice he made is consistent with his character, and
that he knows what he’s doing.

In the case of Creation, it may come down to simply accepting that
God’s action comes from His attributes of being good, loving, and
perfect. Those are the assumptions I made in the beginning, and they
are the same ones I continue to hold on to, no matter how humanly
“illogical” some of His actions seem to be.

In an article on Apologetics Press, Christian apologist Kyle Butt sums
up such debates rather nicely. There is no possible way, he notes, for
our finite human minds to fully understand why God created humans. He
concludes: “God’s attributes of omniscience, impartiality, and love
provide the basis to conclude that only He would be in a position to
determine which world would be the very best. When understood
properly, the Bible presents a completely consistent picture of God’s
moral perfection in regard to His choice to create humans.”

