http://ymi.today/2017/09/what-ive-gained-from-memory-loss/

What I’ve Gained From Memory Loss

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

The very poor memory of the fish, Dory, in the Pixar blockbuster
Finding Nemo, may make her character cute and loveable to most. On my
bad days, however, she is my celebrity doppelganger.

About five years ago, I was a buckled passenger in a near fatal car
accident. I’ve been blessed with a remarkable recovery, but my lasting
injuries include a scar across my forehead, along with my somewhat
rotten short-term memory. It’s been really difficult going from being
a type-A, organized, over-achiever, to suddenly becoming forgetful and
very easily confused!

Even though I can pat myself on the back for the number of
compensatory strategies I‘ve learned to employ, I’ve had many
instances of grieving the recently acquired need for such strategies.
But, in my more mature moments, I can admit how my difficulty with
short-term memory has taught me some valuable lessons.



For most of you, the forgetting part after forgiving someone is just
not a possibility. Try as you might, you can’t always will yourself to
completely forget something.

Do you still have a grudge against your friend for that incident two
years ago? Do you often experience frustration with a family member
over his or her choice in priorities? Pray that God would grant you
the miracle of forgiveness and seek to replace any ungracious thoughts
with uplifting ones.



Aiming to “live in the moment” may just sound like a catch phrase, but
particularly in the early days of my recovery, my memory loss made it
a necessity to do so. During that time, it was really challenging to
identify what day of the week it was, the year, even my own age. I was
24 years old at that time, but, in different situations, confidently
stated I was anywhere between 14 and 30.

Although I’m a planner by nature, I was experiencing an alternate
reality, one that was devoid of time. So, a positive outcome of my
memory loss was learning to appreciate the present. There is a time to
plan and prepare for the future, but amid the busyness of normal life,
try to stop for a minute. Instead of always thinking ahead,
acknowledge who and what is currently surrounding you.



Add to your awareness of the present, gratitude for each moment. In 1
Thess. 5:18, we’re instructed to “give thanks in all circumstances”,
so I challenge you to give this a shot. Take a minute from your day to
pause and really soak in what you are grateful for in that exact
moment.

What are you gathering through your five senses that could otherwise
slip by unnoticed? Try writing down at least one thing every day that
you appreciate, without any repeats, forming a journal of gratitude
that can be looked at and prayed over whenever. I am not advocating a
perspective in which you discount life’s difficulties, rather, simply
acknowledge the blessings. For example, I grieved not being able to
run, but in its absence, I recognized more of the incredible skills
that I used every day (like sight and hearing).

A significant loss I’ve experienced is my ability to play cello due to
the weakness in my left arm and hand. Now, nearly five years later, I
can acknowledge this life-changing loss, but I am also able to
articulate gratitude for ever having had those musical abilities. If
you need to ask God for a right and grateful perspective, know that
you’re not alone! And, if you’re not at the point of being grateful
for an outcome, you can still honor God by telling Him that you trust
His sovereignty, despite the painful consequences of being on this
side of heaven.

You can include in a daily journal of gratitude any of the mental and
physical skills you may take for granted. Only when I couldn’t do many
of the physical activities I loved (like run, rock climb, swim . . . )
did I realize how much I valued them. Likewise, suddenly experiencing
difficulty with short-term memory opened my eyes to the importance of
that ability in everyday life. If memory loss has taught me anything,
it’s to not wait till I lose something before I start to value it.



As you take proactive steps toward fully appreciating the blessings in
each moment, you may become increasingly aware that life is fickle,
here today and gone tomorrow. Do not allow the brevity of life rob you
of enjoying the present. We do not know what tomorrow holds, but
relax! Know that through Jesus, our eternal home is secure and the
best is yet to come!

