http://ymi.today/2017/06/to-those-not-celebrating-fathers-day/

To Those Not Celebrating Father’s Day

Author: by Joanna Hor

I have nothing against Father’s Day. My family just never had the
practice of celebrating it—along with other occasions like Mother’s
Day and Valentine’s Day.

Maybe it was because my parents were not the sentimental sort. The
most we did was to attend the big, extended-family dinners my uncles
or aunties would throw for my grandfathers on both sides. But with my
dad, we never did anything special. No fancy dinner, no expensive
gifts, no warm and fuzzy family photo.

If anyone asked, we would just say, “Nah, it’s just a commercial
gimmick.” After all, we didn’t need to wait for an occasion to have a
nice dinner together; if we wanted to, we just had one. And the same
applied to the giving of gifts. My dad gave us gifts whenever he felt
like it. So birthdays were never much of a deal in my family, either.
And we were all happy with the way things were.

Perhaps that was a blessing in disguise. I have hardly gotten
emotional during Father’s Day in the past four years since my dad
passed on suddenly after a massive stroke. Sure, the banners and
electronic displays screaming “Father’s Day Lunch Promotion”,
“Father’s Day Discount”, or “Father’s Day Gift Ideas” trigger memories
of my dad, but they don’t choke me up with emotion. And I’m thankful
for that. I miss my dad enough, so I don’t need another occasion to
get me all weepy.

You may identify with my situation. Maybe your family just doesn’t
have the practice of celebrating Father’s day, or you lost your dad
some time ago. Perhaps your dad has been absent in your life, or is an
abusive and irresponsible figure you want nothing to do with. Perhaps
Father’s Day brings you more pain and frustration than any other day,
and you cringe at the mere mention of it.

Whatever your reasons for not celebrating Father’s Day, here’s what
I’d like to say: You’re not alone. I know, I know, it’s clichéd—but
it’s true. And it’s not because there are other people out there who
are in the same boat as you. No matter how similar our circumstances
may be, each of them is unique. No one can fully empathize with what
you’ve been through, even your own family members. But one person can
and that’s all that matters.

Mourning over the loss of my beloved father brought me closer to God
than ever before. I remember nights where I wished my dad were still
around so I could tell him about all that had happened during the day.
But I couldn’t, so I told it to God instead. And then there were other
times I would find myself tearing over a memory of my dad triggered by
something—a dream, a place, or an item—and I would end up pouring my
feelings to God. Each time, God never failed to comfort me with the
reminder that my dad was safe in His arms, in a much better place.

Over time, I realized that what my earthly father had shown me was a
glimpse of how wonderful and good my heavenly Father is. Over time, I
realized that what my earthly father had shown me was a glimpse of how
wonderful and good my heavenly Father is. My father’s generosity, his
gentle disposition, and his protective nature—God was all these and
more. Regardless of how our fathers have been or are like, let’s take
comfort in the ever-abiding presence of our ultimate father, God
Himself. He’s the father who will never leave, disappoint, or abandon
us.







Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



