http://ymi.today/2015/10/a-crushed-dream-that-led-me-back-to-god/

A Crushed Dream that Led Me back to God

Author: by Contributor

Written By Chronika Febrianti, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

Every so often, articles about high achieving students from such-and-
such university or country catch my eye. You might think I’m being
overly ambitious, but it has always been my dream to be featured on
such lists.

In fact, this almost became a reality in my university years. On top
of being accepted into one of the best universities in my country—only
the top 25 per cent of applicants make the cut—my grade point average
(GPA) saw a steady increase from my first semester through to my
second and third semesters. In addition, I was accepted into a
prestigious student organization. With everything going like a dream,
I was optimistic that I too, would see my name in the papers some day.

But then, things started to change. Despite my determination to
achieve success both in and out of the class, I simply couldn’t
manage. The busier I became with my involvement in the organization,
the more I missed classes and struggled to keep up with my studies. My
GPA dropped drastically and I failed in one compulsory subject.
Eventually, I had to extend my studies to four and a half years (when
I could have had completed it in three and a half years).

My dream of being featured in the media was shattered. The optimism
that fuelled my spirit was also replaced by an urge to give up. Bitter
regret filled me as I realized how much I had disappointed my parents
and wasted the money they had spent on my studies. I felt so ashamed
that I couldn’t even bring myself to motivate my younger siblings to
be diligent in their studies. When my friends on campus debated about
subjects, I did not have the confidence to join them. When I was made
to attend classes with my juniors, I felt most unmotivated. But while
I really wanted to take study leave, I knew that running away would
not solve the problem. I would only end up as a dropout or student who
didn’t graduate.

Thankfully, God did not let me sink further into despondency. He had
allowed me to experience failure so that I could break free from the
ambition that had controlled my life, but now, He was “resetting” my
mindset.

One day, by His divine will, I came across a quote from Bill Gates. “I
failed in some subjects in exam, but my friend passed in all,” he
said. “Now, he is an engineer in Microsoft and I am the owner of
Microsoft.”

That simple quote got my attention. Even Bill Gates failed at some
points of his life, but he chose to pick himself up. His example
showed me that I need not continue to wallow in my state of self pity.
God was also reminding me that I was created for His glory (Romans
11:36). The failures He allowed me to experience were meant to help me
reflect on the areas in my life that I needed to improve on, so that
my life could glorify God. The failures He allowed me to experience
were meant to help me reflect on the areas in my life that I needed to
improve on, so that my life could glorify God. I realized I should
pick myself up and have a new attitude towards my studies. Instead of
giving up, I should offer my studies to God.

Having learnt that lesson, I have a dream to become a successful
person (again). But my dream is even bigger now. I do not want to be
known merely as a young successful person with a lot of achievements.
Instead, I would like to be known as a person who lives according to
God’s word and displays His glory to the world.

While failures may come across my path again, I will always get up and
strive to follow the guidance of God’s word.

Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God’s mercy,
to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to
God—this is your true and proper worship.—Romans 12:1

