http://ymi.today/2017/02/when-my-parents-didnt-like-my-date/

When My Parents Didn’t Like My Date

Author: by Michele Ong

With my Facebook newsfeed dominated by status updates of engagements,
weddings, and babies, I thought it was best I got my act together or
risk growing old alone.

I had long given up hope of meeting anyone at work, and even though I
do sporting activities like swimming, it is such an individual sport
that it is almost impossible to meet anyone. Besides, the swim squad
that I am with comprises mostly students and their parents.

So, I did what I assumed most single Millennials would do: I signed up
on a few online dating sites. I figured since we spend so much of our
time online—from following our favourite bloggers to shopping—it made
sense to also meet potential dates online.

After taking a few recommendations from a friend, I duly created an
account for each of the sites, filled out my profile, and took extra
care to answer the various questionnaires. You see, I didn’t want to
jinx my chances of meeting the right person, so I made sure my answers
were honest enough, but I was careful not to give too much away, to
protect my identity.

But boy did the weirdos roll in. One asked if I would move to
Christchurch, New Zealand, if we “clicked”—I live in Auckland—after we
had exchanged all of two chat messages. He said he wasn’t looking to
waste his time, and if I couldn’t promise that I’d move to another
town for him, then he’d like to move on.

Another said he liked Asian women because they were “kind, obedient,
and had a nice figure”. Needless to say, I blocked him as fast as I
could. And don’t get me started on one of the other dates, who turned
out to be really gross. Besides making highly inappropriate comments,
he seemed to fail to grasp the concept of personal space—he kept
pressing in close to me. I had to make up excuses to flee within half
an hour of meeting him. Fortunately, we had met at a cafe that was
only a five-minute drive from my house, which made it easy for me to
execute my exit.

I did meet a few decent guys online, but nothing serious came out of
those encounters. There was a paramedic who was really nice, but
conversations were stilted. I also connected with a Canadian, who
happened to be in New Zealand for a short cycling tour. But while we
got on relatively well, there was no telling when he would be back in
this part of town again. Needless to say, that one died a natural
death.

So imagine my delight when I eventually found someone whom I connected
with. On paper, he seemed eligible enough; he was an engineer who also
enjoyed reading and surfing. We started chatting online, and I
thought, “Perfect! My patience has paid off!” After a few weeks of
exchanging text messages, we decided to meet in person to see if we’d
enjoy each other’s company.

Our first date, at a nearby cafe, went on for four hours, which I
thought was a good sign. Previous dates had me checking my watch every
second, hoping for the hour to be up.

Naturally, when he asked if we could hang out again, I agreed. A few
more dates followed, and soon I was texting my friends to tell them
how much fun I was having. When he bought a bouquet of flowers from
the supermarket, I thought, “How cute!”

So all in all, it looked like things had fallen into place and we
decided we would make the relationship “Facebook official”. When
friends and acquaintances commented on how cute we both looked
together (when they saw our photo on Facebook), I replied, “I know,
right? He’s great!”

At that stage, we had been going out for only a month. But when he
asked if he could meet my parents, I didn’t think twice about it. You
see, having heard stories from friends with partners who wouldn’t
commit despite being together for years, I thought it was sweet of my
date to make that effort. “After all, I would have to meet them
eventually,” he said. Furthermore, his parents, who lived in the UK,
were making plans to meet up when they heard I would be visiting the
country later. As for my date, he had moved to New Zealand about three
years ago after he was made redundant back in the UK.

When I told my dad that my date wanted to meet them over lunch, he
accepted the invite. When the day rolled round, I was nervous about
how the lunch would go, and hoped my parents would like him.

Alas, they didn’t.

I was devastated. “But why?” I asked. There were tears and long
conversations with my sister and my dad. Eventually, my dad said he
felt there was something “not quite right” with the guy, and his
instincts were telling him that this man wasn’t the one for me. Next
came the blow: I had to break up with him because my dad didn’t think
anything good would come out of it.

“But it’s so hard to meet someone that I can get along with,” I said,
dismayed. I was ready to argue that it was impossible to suss out the
character traits of someone over lunch, so how would my dad know
“something was not right”? There were times when I made a rash
judgment about someone, only to find out later how nice and kind the
person really was.

But my dad is a good judge of character. Later, he told me that he
suspected that there was more to my date than he had let on, and that
his body language had given him away. On hindsight, I should have
picked up on the red flags. For one, he wasn’t a Christian. Second, I
remembered how agitated he had become when a tour guide was a few
minutes late picking us up for a tour. I didn’t think it was a big
deal, but he kept prancing down the hallway, checking his watch, while
muttering about how late the tour guide was (the guide showed up five
minutes past the hour). There was also the time, when we were out on a
double-date with my sister, where he helped himself to most of the
food on the table without offering any to others.

And then there were the many nights when he’d have me hanging out with
him until quite late, forgetting that I had to wake up early for work.
I hadn’t thought that this would be an issue, but as my dad said,
being considerate of other people’s needs never goes out of style.

So, I did what I had to do and called it quits with the guy. Needless
to say, he didn’t take the news very well, and within 24 hours,
deleted me from his Facebook friend list. Later, he sent me a private
message to say he was sorry for the “knee jerk reaction” but as he was
“falling in love” with me, he was hurt by my decision to break up with
him.

While some of my friends understood my reason for heeding my dad’s
advice, a few were shocked at my decision. “But you were so happy with
him!” they said, “And it’s not for your parents to say if you can or
can’t see someone.” It wasn’t easy, but I knew that in these
circumstances, I had to listen to my parents because they were a lot
wiser than I am in terms of relationships. It wasn’t easy, but I knew
that in these circumstances, I had to listen to my parents because
they were a lot wiser than I am in terms of relationships.

Movies will have us believe it’s a lot more romantic to follow our
hearts and to run away with our beloved—and tough luck to our parents
and their fuddy-duddy advice.

However, I have seen friends who refused to take their parents’
advice, and are finding themselves in difficult marriages (I have also
seen the opposite, but more on this another time). Seeing these real-
life examples help me better appreciate the verses like Proverbs
1:8-9, which liken the advice of our parents to a garland to grace our
head and a chain to adorn our neck. There is value and beauty in our
parents’ well-intended advice; they do have our best interests at
heart.

American pastor Gary Thomas and author of The Sacred Search wrote,
“Your parents know you better than you may realize, and even if they
aren’t believers (Christians), they still usually want the best for
you. At least consider their opinions . . . Also, talk to your pastor
and other godly people you respect: ‘Does this relationship seem like
a ‘fit’ to you? Are there any areas you’re concerned about?’ ”

Sure, no one is perfect. I wasn’t looking for Mr Perfect and I am far
from Miss Perfect. But it was the culmination of all these things
which made me realize, looking back, that breaking up with him was
probably a good thing. Sometimes we make excuses for our date’s bad
behaviour, thinking the person would change once we tie the knot. But
more often than not, that doesn’t happen. I was deeply unhappy about
it in the beginning, but I had made up my mind and there was no
turning back.

Perhaps you’re in a similar situation where the person you’re dating
hasn’t been given your parents’ stamp of approval, and you think your
parents are a killjoy. Whatever the reason might be, I’d like to
encourage you to listen to your parents, and seek out their reasons
behind their objections. It doesn’t mean that we must always take in
everything they say, but at the very least, we should give their
advice some thought.

Though it might be a little hard to swallow, I believe that it will be
worth your while in the long run, just as it was for me. A wise friend
said, “There are worse things than being alone.”



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



