https://ymi.today/2017/12/5-practical-ways-to-savor-christ-this-
christmas/

5 Practical Ways to Savor Christ this Christmas

Author: by Janel Breitenstein

Last year, my kids and I snuggled up to read a Christmas story. It’s
the story of a boy whose parents are determined to throw him an epic
birthday party—replete with guests, food, decor and party favors. But
in the midst of all the hoopla (the plates to be refilled, the pre-
party housecleaning, the crowd control), the boy is forgotten.

Perhaps you see what I’m leading up to here. Sometimes at Christmas,
it’s a little too easy to forget the birthday boy, and that all the
glitter and hype of Christmas has a purpose beyond the secular.

The Bible records extravagant feasts in the Old Testament. Jesus’ big
debut was making wine from water for a wedding. God is the pinnacle of
our joy, of our feasts and revelry. And I think God uses our
senses—the whiff of evergreen; the clam dip (it’s my family’s thing);
the twinkle lights; Jack Frost nipping at your nose—to help us better
appreciate what we can’t see.

Still, with all the Christmas craziness, sometimes I’m not actually
drawn into deeper worship and appreciation of God. Sometimes, I get so
hyped up with creating the magic, the party, that I miss the Birthday
Boy.

So I’m compiling some ideas for all of us, to not only taste
gingerbread or cider, but to savor Jesus this Christmas.



With an already-packed schedule, Christmas can feel a bit like “more
bricks, less straw”. How about cut out a few of the “have-to’s” that
really aren’t (photo Christmas cards rather than hand-signed, for
example)—and allow a little more margin for a meditative state of mind
rather than one sprinting to keep up? Think Martha versus Mary here
(Luke 10:38-42).

Pray that God will open your eyes to what entangles and distracts your
heart from really soaking in the Christmas message this year—and for
the courage to cut it loose.

While I was in Africa, the disappointment and sadness of being away
from my home country and its festivities sometimes meant I kept
Christmas at arm’s length. But I also know that when I’m home for
Christmas, my schedule and all the trimmings of the season tend to
clutter my mind and my heart from the one person who matters.

You’ve heard the old warning: If the Devil can’t make you bad, he’ll
make you busy. So, consider a question like this one: God, I know how
everyone else thinks I should spend my day today. How do you want me
to spend it, to be faithful to you and love well?



In the book Sacred Pathways, author Gary Thomas writes of the various
ways we worship as individuals: through nature, restoring justice,
through our intellect, etc.

Carve out time for the ways you worship, like a walk through the snow,
prayer time in the quiet of the Christmas tree lights, or caring for a
lonely neighbor.

Personally, I’ve played Lauren Daigle’s “Light of the World” while I
jog, or composed some Christmas music on the piano. Last year, after
opening presents with family on Christmas day, I took a walk in order
to simply have a conversation with God. Bringing Christmas into your
heart can take on all forms for each of us!



Look online for tools that foster the ways you most deeply worship.
There are advent devotionals, like this one from Desiring God. If
you’re moved by music, spend a few dollars and a few extra minutes
looking for songs that will move you to praise and worship God
wholeheartedly.

You might also find methods to hijack your traditions: like an advent
calendar that, alongside all that sugar, leads you closer to Jesus, or
ornaments that clearly remind you of Jesus whenever you look at your
tree.



Ask God to point out one name of Jesus (“Prince of Peace”) or verse
(“I am the Lord’s servant; may it be to me as you have said”) or
character from the Christmas story that sticks out. Meditate on that
as you go through the season, and listen as God fleshes out its
meaning.

If you’re having a hard time getting in the groove, begin with
reflecting on His kindness to you last year. My family posted a large
poster board in our house to make a record of as much of His goodness
as we can remember in 2017. It’s nearly full!

In a painful or frustrated Christmas, thankfulness can turn our eyes
from ourselves to God’s constant graces—even something as simple as
the breath we’re drawing into our lungs.



Choose one area in which to give yourself away this Christmas—one that
pushes you beyond your comfort zone, pressing you into worship that
gives uncomfortably, extravagantly, and/or inconveniently in your
expression of love for God.

For example, my family and I have rung bells for the Salvation Army,
purchased gifts for Operation Christmas Child, given out “Christmas
bundles” to impoverished local families, and manned the children’s
craft table for a holiday celebration welcoming local refugees.



And if you’re not sure how to make more of Jesus this Christmas—ask
Him. We’re made for worship, and we can see clearly in Scripture that
it is His will for us to worship Him well this Christmas. This season,
may He open your mouth to taste the greatest Gift.



Janel is an author, freelance writer, and speaker. After five and a
half years in East Africa, her family of six has returned to Colorado,
where they continue to work on behalf of the poor with Engineering
Ministries International. Her first book, on spiritual life skills for
messy families (Zondervan), is planned to release March 2021. You can
find her having uncomfortable, important conversations at
JanelBreitenstein.com and on Instagram @janelbreit.



