http://ymi.today/2015/08/me-and-my-alter-ego/

Me and My Alter Ego

Author: by Contributor

Written By Renny Acheampong, Denmark

Have you ever watched Disney shows as a kid? Well, I have. One of the
shows I remember watching was Lizzie McGuire, an American teen sitcom
about the alter ego of the title character. This alter ego is a
cartoon character called Animated Lizzie, who functions as Lizzie
McGuire’s inner monologue. She walks about, jumps, and sometimes even
hollers in Lizzie’s mind. A few weekends ago, I had a taste of what it
was like to have my own animated alter ego.

It was at an official farewell service my church had organized for me.
I was leaving as I was relocating after 16 years of service there.
Among the many kind words they said to me were things like, “Renny,
you’ve left a legacy”, and “Renny, your reward will be great in
heaven”. Someone even used the Apostle Paul’s words in 2 Timothy 4:7-8
to describe my life, “Renny, I can confidently say that you have
fought the good fight of faith”.

I was genuinely surprised by the praises they were singing of me;
never in my wildest dreams had I thought that my actions had made such
an impact on the community. That’s when my alter ego made her entrance
to remind me of the One who had made all the difference. “Lord, do
these people even know what they are saying? Do they know that every
good thing I ever did, it was You who did? Do they know that behind
this seemingly confident, almost-never-tired-working-for-the-Lord
Renny is a really weak and fragile Renny? Do they know that I struggle
with my flesh too? Do they know of the countless number of times that
I failed and disappointed you? Do they know of the times I did not
even want to exist anymore because I felt life was too unbearable? Do
they know that I cry myself to sleep at times? Do they know of the
many insecurities I have? How can they possibly say such good stuff
about me? I never did anything. It was all You, Lord!”

After my alter ego finished her soliloquy, I felt a renewed conviction
about why and who I was serving. What matters most isn’t what we
acquire on earth, but rather what we store up in eternity. Pleasing
Jesus is more important than pleasing man. I want to make my life
count for eternity.

Later that evening, I went down on my knees and cried to the Lord to
help me to focus on pleasing Him and to do His will and accomplish the
purpose which He created me for.

“Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of
wisdom.”—Psalm 90:12

