http://ymi.today/2017/11/texas-shooting-the-aftermath/

Texas shooting: The Aftermath

Author: by Jonathan Malm

On Sunday, while I was worshipping at my church, a shooting happened
just a few miles away at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs,
Texas. It turned out to be the deadliest church shooting in US
history. At least 26 died (almost half of them children) and others
were injured.

As a fellow Texan, I can say that the whole community is still in the
early stages of the grief process. If the five stages are denial,
anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance, we’re somewhere in
between denial and anger.

Anger is obvious, because we’re mad something like this could happen.

The denial part is equally strong. To be honest, Texans have a certain
pride that things like this can’t happen here. In such a small town,
this seems like the most improbable thing. It’s hard for us Texans to
wrap our minds around it.

That said, I feel that it’s important and necessary that we work our
way through the grieving process, no matter how tough it is. And the
first thing to bear in mind is this: We can grieve.

In 1 Thessalonians 4:13, Paul talked to the church about grief. “And
now, dear brothers and sisters, we want you to know what will happen
to the believers who have died so you will not grieve like people who
have no hope.” Paul never told the Thessalonian believers not to
grieve; he told them to grieve from a place of hope.

This hope, I believe, can propel us to go beyond the “acceptance”
stage of the grieving process to a sixth stage that is available to
believers. That stage is “worship”.

As believers, we can land somewhere greater than just accepting the
negative circumstances. With faith and hope available to us, we can go
beyond mere acceptance and turn it into worship towards God. We can
turn it into giving to others. We can turn it into doing the hard
thing out of love. We can turn it into gratitude for what God has
given us.

While this tragic turn of events might seem extra heart-breaking in
light of the upcoming Christmas season, I’d like to suggest that we
change our perspective and see the opposite instead. Not only should
the approaching Christmas season give us hope and comfort, it can
teach us how to process this sixth stage of grief. And Mary’s a great
example of how to do it.

When she found out she was pregnant, Scripture tells us that she
accepted her fate. But she was human, just like you and me. This young
girl’s expectations for her life were shattered by something God did.
Surely she felt these emotions too:

Mary probably experienced a lot more mental turmoil. But Scripture
focuses on what she did after the fifth stage of acceptance. Mary’s
faith not only led her to acceptance, but ultimately, also to worship.

One of the most beautiful songs from Scripture was birthed out of this
grief-turned-to-worship moment.

For the Mighty One is holy, and he has done great things for me. He
shows mercy from generation to generation to all who fear him.

—Luke 1:49-50 (NLT)

That’s what happens when we let God speak into the areas of our heart
that disappointment or tragedy exposes. We have the opportunity to
respond with worship. By giving to others. Praising God. Loving the
unlovable. By focusing on God instead of ourselves. Appreciation pours
from our hearts and turns into worship.

I’m working on letting my grief turn into worship through these
circumstances. I’m trying to help my friends walk through this process
too. Let’s add faith to our acceptance and see worship result from
this tragedy. God can get glory through this.



Jonathan is a creative entrepreneur and writer. He is the author of
The Hidden Option , a book that helps Believers find God’s creativity
in impossible situations. You’ll find him in San Antonio, Texas, US,
roasting his own coffee beans enjoying life with his wife, Carolina.



