http://ymi.today/2016/04/confessions-of-a-christian-life-hacker/

Confessions of a Christian Life Hacker

Author: by Contributor

Written By Karen Kwek, Singapore

A lifelong scribbler, Karen enjoys the company of friends, a great cup
of tea and seeing the gospel transform hearts and lives. She worked as
a book editor until she and her husband traded peace and quiet for
parenthood. It seemed a good idea at the time.

I watch, impressed, as a friend tears open a bag of crisps, tucks in
the bottom corners of the packet and keeps rolling the sides under
until he’s created an instant snack bowl from nothing but the original
packaging—ingenious! My husband, our family’s resident tech support,
has not only networked all our wireless gadgets together but also
united all our entertainment subscriptions under the rule of the one
ring—I mean, the one remote control. Ah, life just got that much
easier!

I’m a huge fan of life hacks—creative problem-solving systems and
shortcuts that increase productivity. Such time-saving strategies used
to be part of the practical knowledge passed down from parent to
child, trainer to apprentice, in any discipline, but, as you might
have guessed, we have the computer industry to thank for reinventing
an old concept and making it go viral.

In 2004, tech journalist Danny O’Brien studied the work processes of
highly productive computer technologists (popularly called “hackers”).
He found that what they had in common were certain tricks that greatly
simplified their programming tasks. The term “life hacks” was born,
and expanded to describe any workaround, tip or trick that helps us
get more things done faster, better and often more economically.
Today, the Internet and media-sharing platforms such as YouTube have
made life hacks accessible to almost anyone, anywhere.

From keyboard shortcuts for our software, to clever ways to peel and
slice fruit, to holidaying on a shoestring budget, here’s why I love
‘em:

These reasons strongly appeal to us because modern society is spoilt
for choice by an increasing array of options, products and services.
With so many things vying for our attention and money, the modern
consumer is a king accustomed to the quick and easy solution. We’ve
developed a “fix-it” mindset. Have you noticed, for instance, how hung
up we are on seeing results—fast?

There is an “instant” version of almost everything, from coffee to
messaging to credit approval. Biotechnology is figuring out faster and
faster ways to grow plants and animals so we can get them onto our
dinner plates sooner. Even news and advice are packaged to convey
maximum information at a glance—how often have you seen titles like “5
Steps to Getting Rich” or “7 Secrets of Successful People”? Forget
having to learn through hands-on experience or read a whole how-to
guide or article to get the essential tips—we’ve even life-hacked life
hacking.

Or have we?

It’s tempting to view not just our work tasks but all of life through
“fix-it” lenses. As technology writer and creator of the term “life
hacks”, Danny O’Brien, observes, “[F]or most people . . . modern life
is just this incredibly complex problem amenable to no good obvious
solution. But we can peck around the edges of it; we can make little
shortcuts . . .  So the idea of life hacks is just really appealing,
because it’s an expression of this huge hope that you can actually
hack life in this way, that you might make it a bit more bearable
without having to swallow or understand the whole thing.”

Subconsciously, many people feel this way about life. Perhaps through
our quick fixes we hope to control whatever we can, so that the whole
messy business of life doesn’t unravel and overwhelm us. Don’t get me
wrong—I’m all for getting things done well, and shorter queues at the
bank (well, shorter queues anywhere!) But is life really just a
complex problem? Are quick fixes our best bet? As I thought about my
love for shortcuts and my quest for clever solutions, it occurred to
me that the Bible presents a different perspective on life.

The great wise King Solomon spent his lifetime studying the world and
despite his wisdom, concluded that it was unfathomable. “No one can
comprehend what goes on under the sun. Despite all their efforts to
search it out, no one can discover its meaning. Even if the wise claim
they know, they cannot really comprehend it.” (Ecclesiastes 8:17)

Solomon understood that quick fixes weren’t the answer—he’d already
tried them all! From knowledge to pleasure, from hard work to progress
and wealth, nothing satisfied his quest for life’s meaning. Until he
recognized that God is Maker of us all, and judge, and our lives
therefore bear a connection to, a relationship with God. “Remember
your Creator,” Solomon concluded, “in the days of your youth . . .
Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of
man.” (Ecclesiastes 12:1; 13)

Left to our natural selves, however, we humans cannot please God,
because we ignore or disobey Him and rightly deserve His punishment.
Yet the good news is that God has restored our relationship with Him
through the work of Jesus Christ, who died on the cross to save us.
The Christian life is this restored relationship, true and
everlasting. And because it’s a relationship, there are no shortcuts.

In fact, we face difficulties for a reason— God has plans to develop
our character through adversity. As the apostle Paul wrote, “we know
that suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character; and
character, hope.” (Romans 5:3-4) We are told to “be still before the
Lord and wait patiently for him” (Psalm 37:7), trusting him to act in
his good time. But for instant gratification addicts, waiting is hard!

Indeed, being Jesus’ faithful disciple takes patience and effort on
our part—no mantras; no easy workarounds.

I’ve discovered how unhelpful my “fix-it” mentality can be for my
relationship with God. How often I’ve mistaken the thanks I mumble to
God before meals, or my desperate ramblings before falling asleep, for
a healthy, sustained prayer life and an attitude of humble dependence
on Him. How often I’ve substituted the hasty reading of a random
comforting verse of Scripture for an in-depth study of a Bible
passage, thinking that I’ve read God’s Word all the same. How often
I’ve read His Word but failed to put any of it into practice. How
often I’ve come away after a church service, feeling that I’ve earned
the right to do things my way because my one or two hours of “worship”
are done. When I fall prey to these and other “Christian life hacks”,
I ironically end up neglecting my relationship with God and failing to
enjoy His presence in my life.

Having observed that there are no shortcuts in the Christian life,
however, I do want to leave you with this thought: if a life hack is
something that saves us a lot of trouble and frustration, then surely
Jesus’ rescue of us was the ultimate example! His death has taken away
the sins of many, once and for all—a literal lifesaver. Furthermore,
in Christ we find all the wisdom and power of God, everything we need
for eternal life with Him.

This means that His Word also equips believers for life in the here
and now, so we would do well to pay attention to Scripture, for it’s
the Lord who gives wisdom and guards the ways of his faithful ones
(Proverbs 2:6-11). He doesn’t promise easy workarounds, but his wisdom
and insight can protect us from painful mistakes—“Fear God and keep
his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man”.

I’m still going to visit my favorite websites for handy tips and
tricks, and learn to use Google like a boss, but now that I think
about it, wise ol’ King Solomon was on to probably the greatest life
hack of all.

