http://ymi.today/2017/08/3-misconceptions-about-marriage/

3 Misconceptions about Marriage

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lim Chien Chong

Chien Chong joined Singapore Youth For Christ (SYFC) full-time in 1998
after a six-year teaching career in a local junior college. In 2005,
he became SYFC’s National Director. Since Jan 2021, he has taken the
role of the Teaching & Resource Director. He currently serves in the
pulpit, Bible class and children ministry in church, and also
preaches, trains, and teaches in different churches and youth groups
in Singapore. He has been married for 19 years and has two teenage
boys.



Weddings. It’s interesting how many people (women in particular) start
dreaming and talking about their wedding at a young age.

I came across a blogger who wrote about how she started dreaming about
her wedding as soon as she could talk. And when she got her first
piggy bank at four, she started saving—not for her education, but for
her wedding dress. Numerous media outlets have reported that many
women have the details of their dream wedding planned out by the time
they’re 13.

But while a wedding marks one of the most important occasions in a
person’s life, it can mean different things to different people. For
some, it signals the start of something new and better. For others, it
symbolizes graduating to the next stage in life. But there are also
those who do not view it favorably in light of the rising number of
broken relationships around them. For these people, they are skeptical
about marriage, and conclude that marriages are outdated and no longer
relevant.

Depending on our dreams and experiences, we may have either a romantic
or bleak view of marriage. Let me share three misconceptions about
marriage that I think most of us have, based on some of my personal
reflections from Ephesians 5:31-33.



Some of us see marriage as another stage in life. When we are young,
we attend school. After we are done with studying, we go out to work.
What’s next? Get married and give birth.

Seen from this perspective, marriage is merely a rite of passage to
adulthood. And this invariably affects our attitude towards it. Like
everything else in life, we simply try to “make the best out of it”.
So, marriage becomes a gamble; or maybe an investment.

My grandmother married my grandfather even though she knew she would
be his second wife, believing that the marriage would bring her
security. As it turned out, she was the least loved among the three
ladies in his life. Even her own biological children were instructed
to address her as “nanny” rather than “mommy”. It’s sad that while my
grandmother was married into a rich family, she was not rich in many
ways.



Married couples often call their spouses their other halves. But to
think of another person completing us has an obvious limitation. It
means that before we are married or if we’re single, we are only “half
a person”.

When I was younger, I used to think that many problems would be solved
when I got married. I wouldn’t be lonely anymore, and I’d have someone
I could truly trust and be honest with, someone who could make me feel
secure. But reality can be very different.

My wife will tell you that she had some lonely nights and feelings of
insecurity in the first few years of our marriage, especially when we
got into conflicts and disagreements. At the time, I too wondered
whether my wife, who was supposed to be my best friend, could truly
accept and understand me. I was not alone, but I still felt lonely.

The fact is, married people still feel lonely, suspicious, and
insecure.



The idea that marriage is like “imprisonment” is not uncommon. Just
before our marriage, we have our last bachelor’s party and take our
last holiday trip as singles because we somehow think that life will
no longer be the same anymore after the wedding day.

In fact, this is precisely the reason why there are so many negative
jokes about marriage and funny ways to describe it. Because many
people do feel resentful; they feel that the best part of their lives
has been given away to their partners and children.

But is this really the case? And if it is not meant to be an
“imprisonment”, then what should it be like? Are there any certain
truths we can know about marriage?



For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united
to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. (Ephesians 5:31)

As Christians, we see marriage as a very special relationship that God
has designed, in which two lives are closely knit into one. This
doesn’t mean that we stop being individuals or that we need a spouse
in order to be “complete”. This doesn’t mean that we stop being
individuals or that we need a spouse in order to be “complete”. What
it means is that we cannot just focus on our own interests and expect
our spouses to simply support us. We need to give due consideration to
our time together, our common concerns, goals and interests.

I used to love to hang out for late-night movies and suppers, play my
favorite sports and computer games, and even travel overseas with my
friends. While I could expect my wife to support me by letting me
continue doing what I like frequently and let her do the things that
she likes, that would probably encourage me to look out for my own
needs first, rather than her needs—or even ours, as a couple.

One of my favorite illustrations which brings out God’s idea of
marriage shows two people involved in a three-legged race. Each of the
two participants must do his/her own part in the race. But the duo
also needs to have a common direction, a common pace, and the
willingness to speed up or slow down for the other person. If each
individual wants to go in his or her own direction, both of them will
not only get very frustrated and go nowhere, but may even fall flat on
their faces.

But what if the couple cannot agree on whose direction and priority to
go with? How do we know whose direction and priority is better? Under
normal circumstances, it is truly difficult to decide. But for
Christians, this problem is more easily resolved. The truths and
principles in the Bible shape our direction and priority.



This is a profound mystery—but I am talking about Christ and the
church. (Ephesians 5:32)

While this passage in Ephesians gives clear instructions on the roles
of husbands and wives, we must remember that the marriage relationship
is actually referencing Jesus and the church.

Left to our own devices, our marriages will likely present great
struggles. As singles, we can choose to ignore certain issues and
struggles known only to ourselves. But when we are married, we have
someone very close to us who is watching, and maybe even judging us
24/7. We may be constantly reminded about our own issues. Here I am,
hoping my spouse can help me solve my problems. Instead, he or she
magnifies my problems and makes my struggles even more pronounced.

The thing is, many of the issues we face in our marriages stem from
the sinfulness in our own lives. Our spouses are not the cause of our
problems; neither are they the solution. Our spouses are not the cause
of our problems; neither are they the solution. Our problem is that we
are, first and foremost, at war with God. Our hostility against God
affects the way we relate with others as well as the way we live. So
we need to first find forgiveness from God. Jesus died for us to pay
the price of our sins so that through Him, we can be forgiven by God.
But does the wiping away of our past record of wrong guarantee a good
life henceforth?

Well, the other interesting part to the death of Jesus was that He
rose to life from the dead. God, by His great power, raised Jesus from
the dead. And the Bible tells us that this same power is now at work
in the lives of Jesus’ followers so that we can live a new and good
life. That means that we have the power to live anew. Christian
couples are thus empowered to live out their marriage as God intended.

In addition to this new ability that we have in Jesus, we also have a
new understanding. The way Jesus loves His people, the church, and
teaches them how to live in obedience and submission to Him serve as
the example of how husbands and wives ought to relate with one another
in love and obedience.

While our lives are made incomplete by sin, our lives are made whole
again when we come to Jesus. So, whether we are married and single, we
do live complete lives in Christ. What is different, though, is that
married and singles experience this completeness differently in their
lives.



However, each one of you also must love his wife as he loves himself,
and the wife must respect her husband. (Ephesians 5:33)

Commitment and obligations are not expressions of bondage; they are
expressions of love. If we love someone, everything is a pleasure; if
we don’t, everything is a chore. Because I love my wife, I meet her
needs because I want to—not just because I have to. In marriage, I am
not imprisoned. In fact, I am free to make choices; I choose to love
and serve my wife willingly and cheerfully.

We all know that we need to show love and respect. But while we know
these concepts and their importance, we often don’t do it. A very
simple expression of love and respect is how we talk to and about one
another. Often, it is not difficult to see that couples don’t really
love and respect one another by the strong, unkind, and demeaning
words they use to describe one another, as well as the gestures they
use, like rolling their eyes or raising their voices and hands at each
other. While many feel criticized by their spouses, the sad truth is
they have also done the same to their spouses.

Learning to listen, understand, and remember are extremely important.
Once, my wife was very upset with me because she thought that I was
not listening to the things that she said. But when I assured her that
I was following her conversation and could repeat some of the things
she said, her demeanor and response changed immediately. That was
certainly one important occasion when my attentiveness and good memory
served me well.

Another way in which we show love and respect is to learn to do what
is most needful and helpful. The list can go on and on. It can get
very demoralizing because it seems like there are so many things we
need to do to get our marriages right.

But the good news is that it is actually not just about what we do. If
the Lord Jesus constantly works in our heart and changes us, we will
grow to be loving and respectful people. When that happens, we will
know and do what’s loving and respectful.

So for me, what has helped me a lot in my own marriage is to
constantly focus on three aspects:

In fact, these are the same three aspects that we should turn back to
for all other issues of life. If we can always remember God’s good
design, Christ’s completed work and our expected role in the different
areas of life, we will be able to handle and work through our
struggles the way God intends.

