https://ymi.today/2018/01/it-starts-with-believing-god-is-good/

It Starts with Believing God is Good

Author: by Contributor

Written By Gabrielle Triyono, USA

We all have probably said “Thank God” or “God is good” many times in
our lives. But do our choices and way of living truly reflect what we
say? It wasn’t always the case for me.

Growing up as a Christian, I was taught that God is good. I have also
seen Him do good things in my life. But even though I’d witnessed
God’s miraculous hand upon my life, I still had moments of doubt and
fear in what God was asking me to do.

For a while, God had put in my heart to let go of a relationship. I’d
seen God’s faithfulness and goodness when He had asked me to let go of
things previously, but my desire for this relationship blinded me from
seeing God’s way as good. I pressed on with my own will and decided
that God’s way wasn’t good enough.

I soon found how wrong I was.

This relationship ended up pulling me away from God. I got distracted
and lost sight of what God was calling me to do. The books that God
put in my heart to write got delayed, and I was not able to give
myself fully to serving in the ministries at my church. Because Jesus
was never the center of our relationship, both of us were not growing
spiritually.

I came to the realization that if I stayed in this relationship, I
would never reach God’s destiny for my life. I finally had the courage
to believe that God’s way was best, so I obeyed and let go of the
relationship.

Since then, I have seen Him move more in my life than ever before. God
opened the door for me to be a leader in the singles ministry at my
church (even though I had only attended the ministry for a couple of
months). I was also invited to speak, share a sermon, and lead worship
for my church’s singles ministry Christmas event. It was humbling to
see how my message resonated with people walking in different seasons
of life; many shared that it was just what they needed to hear.

I have also been deeply encouraged by how God has used my writings on
“Living Revelations” to reach out to others, some of whom have written
testimonies to share how they appreciate the relevancy of the pieces
as well as my transparency.

I’ve seen Ephesians 3:20 become real in my life: “Now to him who is
able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to
his power that is at work within us.” God certainly gave me more than
what I could imagine. He opened more doors for my ministry. And He was
moving more in my life.

That episode helped me realize this important truth: Realizing God’s
goodness positions us to walk in obedience to enter into our destiny.
Psalm 18:30 reminds us, “As for God, his way is perfect . . .”

I can’t help but wonder about the many times we have missed out on
God’s blessing by refusing to obey Him because we refused to believe
that His way is perfect. I had to learn the hard way that God’s way
may not feel like the best way, but His way is always the best. I had
to learn the hard way that God’s way may not feel like the best way,
but His way is always the best.

Simon Peter’s first encounter with Jesus is a good example of the
importance of trusting in what Jesus is calling us to do. In Luke 5,
we see Jesus asking Peter to sail to deep waters to fish again. Peter
had just spent the whole night trying to catch fish but caught
nothing.

His response to Jesus was, “Master, we’ve worked hard all night and
haven’t caught anything. But because you say so, I will let down the
nets” (v. 5). Peter was exhausted, and the way he responded suggests
that he did not feel Jesus’s idea was a good one. But despite his
doubts and hesitant feelings, he did it anyway.

What was the outcome? Overwhelming blessing.

Peter and his fellow fishermen caught so much fish that the nets began
to break (v. 6). Luke 5:8-9 says, “When Simon Peter realized what had
happened, he fell to his knees before Jesus . . . For he was awestruck
by the number of fish they had caught . . .” (emphasis mine).

Peter came to a realization of God’s goodness. If he had followed his
feelings and not listened to Jesus, he would never have been in the
position he was in—at the feet of Jesus, in complete awe of his power.

Maybe we’re like Simon Peter. But just as his experience showed, our
feelings don’t make reality. God wants to overwhelm us with His
goodness and blessing, but it starts with our obedience.

Will we respond to Jesus like Simon Peter, and say, “Because you say
so, I will do it”?

If you haven’t seen the hand of God move in your life, now is your
chance to see His goodness poured out in your life. And if you have
seen God move in your life, believe that He will do it again.

Will we follow what Jesus is asking us to do in faith, despite our
feelings and doubts? Will we come to the realization of this simple
truth that God is always for our good?

We don’t have to be afraid of what is to come. As long as we are
walking with God, His goodness will always follow our lives. Psalm
23:6 says, “Surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days
of my life.”

There is nothing better than living in the will of God.



This article was originally published on the writer’s blog here. This
version has been edited by YMI.

