http://ymi.today/2016/12/editors-picks-top-5-articles-giving/

Editor’s Picks: Top 5 Articles | Giving

Author: by YMI

In a matter of weeks—or even days—streets will be lined with dazzling
displays, shops will be brimming with holiday gifts and Christmas
carols will reverberate through the air.

For many of us, it’s a highly anticipated change. It, after all, marks
the arrival of our favorite season, Christmas. It’s the time we get
warm fuzzy feelings, feel more generous and make an effort to rekindle
bonds. But above all that, it’s the time we celebrate the greatest
gift God gave to each one of us—His son, Jesus Christ.

So once again, let’s come before the Lord with grateful hearts this
December. Let’s celebrate Jesus’ birth and the life He gave us. And
let’s be willing to give generously, till it hurts—just as God did for
us.

In the spirit of giving, here’s five articles we want to share with
you to help us reflect on the most wonderful time of the year.

No, seriously. Nothing much about Christmas makes sense, when you
think about it. Here’s five reasons why.



If there was no Christ in Christmas, there would be little hope for
us. It would mean we would be on our own in this world—alone in our
loneliness, in our mistakes, in our addictions, and in our
hopelessness.

But Christ did come that first Christmas, and it makes all the
difference in the world.



Have you ever received a lovely gift and thanked the giver
appropriately, only to realize later that it was homemade? Suddenly
the significance of the gift grows, because you now know that the
giver had put in much effort and many hours into it, and your former
expression of thanks doesn’t seem adequate any more.

Something like that happened to me recently, when I started reading
the books of Genesis and Matthew side by side.



December feels sorrowful. In this month, bad things happened. A good
friend’s mum went into the surgical room for a minor operation, but
never came out alive. Another experienced complications during
childbirth and the long anticipated child came into the world with
permanent disabilities.

Yet, while my friends are grieving, the world is still spinning.



Ah, it’s Christmas! A perfect time to mark a significant date with
brothers and sisters in Christ. A perfect time to share the gospel and
tell people about the love of God that sent His Son down to earth to
save us from our sins. And a perfect time NOT to…

