http://ymi.today/2015/11/quitting-social-media-whats-the-big-deal/

Quitting Social Media: What’s the big deal?

Author: by Joanna Hor

Image copyright Instagram: Essenaoneill

You must have heard of Essena O’Neill by now.

If you haven’t, Essena is the massively popular 18-year-old Australian
Instagram star who has amassed more than 500,000 followers on
Instagram, 200,000 on YouTube and Tumblr, and 60,000 on Snapchat. On
November 2, she stirred up a global media frenzy when she publicly
announced that she was quitting social media for good.

The reason? She wanted to expose the dark side of social media and
reveal the “truth” behind her seemingly perfect life. In an 18-minute
video published on her YouTube account which has since closed, Essena
talked about how she had become obsessed with views, likes, and
followers on her social media accounts. She also revealed the extent
to which she had gone to create beautiful photos of herself, just to
get the numbers to increase. This included starving for days to get
the perfect body for a shot, taking some 200 photos for a single post
on Instagram, and posing strategically to enhance her best features.
Despite the hundreds of thousands in likes and the following she
garnered, however, she said that she felt empty and became even more
insecure about other people’s opinions of her.

Essena now wants to be a “game-changer”. Her goal, she said, is to
inspire others not to be consumed by the need for approval, but to do
things that make themselves happy. She has since started her own site,
to promote “veganism, plant-based nutrition, environmental awareness,
social issues, gender equality, [and] controversial art”.

While many have come out in support of Essena’s bold move, just as
many have slammed her for self-promotion, saying that she is simply
rebranding herself. Digital media website Mashable noted that the
teenage girl’s move would invariably lead to more media appearances—“a
strange move”, it noted, “for someone who wants to get the attention
off herself.”

So what should we make of her announcement? The debate on how genuine
or wise it is could go on forever, but perhaps there is one thing we
can all agree on: at the end of the day, every single one of us is
self-serving and craves validation, at least a little bit. The debate
on how genuine or wise it is could go on forever, but perhaps there is
one thing we can all agree on: at the end of the day, every single one
of us is self-serving and craves validation, at least a little bit.
Whether it’s on social media, among our friends or at work, we are
always looking for the approval of others—be it in the form of a
Facebook “like”, a thumbs-up, or a pat on the back.

Perhaps quitting social media may help us curb that obsession. But
would it just be a superficial solution to a much deeper issue? Would
our desire for the approval of others manifest in another form,
leaving us feeling empty and wanting all over again?

Maybe it’s time we identify the cause and not just address the
symptom. Maybe we shouldn’t blame social media for being insidious and
feeding our obsession. Maybe it’s not enough just to tell ourselves
repeatedly that we don’t care about what others think. Perhaps,
instead, we need to learn to recognize that all of us have this
void—this desire to be affirmed. And we need to deal with it head on,
and ask ourselves questions such as: Is there a way to manage our
desire for the affirmation of others? Is there another way to measure
our self-worth? And whose opinion should we take?

Perhaps the solution is to fill the void with something else. In a
world where values change like shifting sand, we might do well to look
to the only constant—the One who made us and defines who we are.

Take a moment to ask yourself: Do you truly value God’s opinion above
all else?

Because when you do that, it will no longer matter how many likes you
get on Facebook or how many followers you have on Instagram. Your
value will be secure in God.



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



