http://ymi.today/2015/10/bieber-the-believer/

Bieber the Believer

Author: by Contributor

Written By Leslie Koh, Singapore

You must know Bieber, the Canadian songwriter and singer.

Bieber, the pop star who is as well known for his controversial
behavior as he is for his hits.

Bieber, the teen idol who probably has as many detractors as he has
fans. (For the uninitiated, that’s “Beliebers” of the “Beebs”.)

But do you know Bieber, the believer?

Yes, you read that right. Justin Bieber is a Christian. The latest
issue of Complex magazine quotes Bieber talking about his faith in
God, his love for Jesus, and his keenness to share the gospel. “I,
personally, love Jesus and that was my salvation,” he tells the
interviewer. “I want to share what I’m going through and what I’m
feeling . . . ”

Un-Beliebers, you’re probably looking really skeptical now. Bieber?
You ask. The same guy who has had several run-ins with the authorities
over reckless and drink driving, vandalism, and anger issues? (And
let’s not even start on his music.)

Oh, yes. Whatever you may say or think about Bieber, he’s been fairly
consistent about his Christian faith. As far back as 2010, he had
spoken about his belief in God, saying that he prays and reads the
Bible regularly. In the latest interview with Complex, he talks a
little more about his belief and what it means to be a Christian.

Perhaps the hard part is for un-Beliebers to believe that Bieber is
really a believer (sorry, couldn’t resist that). Some may wonder
whether he is being a good role model for his millions of fans. After
all, you might argue, the Beebs’ behavior and lifestyle might come
across as somewhat controversial, at least to some.

Fair enough.

But here’s something to consider. We were all sinners deserving of
God’s wrath, but through His grace and mercy, we were forgiven,
redeemed by Christ into His kingdom, and given the hope of salvation.
We are, however, still far from perfect now. Indeed, we are all works-
in-progress—undergoing God’s process of sanctification, which will
take up our entire lives. Whether we’re a pop star or a normal person,
God is working in us to make us more like Christ, day by day. Whether
we’re a pop star or a normal person, God is working in us to make us
more like Christ, day by day.

In the meantime, our old selves—the human nature that wants to sin—is
at conflict with the Holy Spirit, who is working within us to
transform us into Jesus’ likeness. As Paul has lamented, this means we
sometimes do the things we know we shouldn’t, and don’t do the things
we know we should (Romans 7:14–25).

“If we can understand that we’re all imperfect, let’s come to God and
come for his help.” You know who said that? Yes, Bieber. He’s kind of
spot on, isn’t he? In a way, we’re all on the same journey of faith
and sanctification.

Here’s another thought. God desires that all men come to Him and be
saved. That includes you, your friends . . . and pop stars. So perhaps
we should learn to see the world from God’s eyes, and see people with
God’s heart. Let’s rejoice when we hear of people turning to God, and
pray that they may truly continue to seek to grow in their faith and
see their lives transformed.

Whether you’re a Belieber or not, let’s cultivate the heart of a true
Believer.

Photo credit: NRK P3 / Foter / CC BY-NC-SA

