http://ymi.today/2015/03/why-me/

Why Me?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Jason Chen, Taiwan (Originally in Traditional Chinese)

Why Me? That was the grabbing title of a book I read recently; a
question which triggered a lot of memories.

Implied in those two words is the larger question: Why does God allow
people to suffer unbearable pains? There was once I asked God that
very question. It happened at a time when I lost a loved one, and was
facing family conflict, pressure from studies, relationship
difficulties, faltering faith, and suffering from panic and anxiety
disorder, all at once. The aggregated pain and suffering I experienced
almost broke my spirit completely. I felt like I had fallen into an
abyss I could not get out of. At some point (I don’t recall exactly
when), I started shunning people during the day, fearful of their gaze
and suffocated by their presence. I also lost my appetite. At night, I
experienced loneliness, emptiness, and fear. I was often startled by
my own dreams and as a result, was always deprived of sleep. I felt
that no one could understand my thoughts or feelings; even I could
barely recognize myself anymore.

During that time, some people told me to “cast all [my] anxiety on
God.” Not only did I fail to comprehend what it meant, it left me with
further questions. What does it mean to “cast”? How do I even “cast”?
Others told me to “pray and give thanks in all things.” Who says I
didn’t try? But it just felt like I was walking through a valley of
despair. I cried, knelt by my bedside and looked to the cross, praying
and hoping that God would deliver me from my spiralling pit of
despair. Yet after praying, I always felt like nothing had changed and
peace continued to elude me. On many occasions, my body would shake as
I cried to God from the bottom of my heart, “Lord, save me! I am at my
wit’s end, perplexed and almost driven to the point of insanity. I
feel like I’m falling off a cliff and am about to face death. Dear
Lord, would you please reveal yourself to me and answer my prayers
quickly. Why am I suffering? Why me?” Time and time again I questioned
God, in the exact same way the title of the book read.

Now as I look back on what I went through, I realize that what I had
gained was one of the most precious lessons I could ever learn—to wait
upon the Lord.

During the time that God did not seem to answer my cries, He was
actually teaching me to wait upon Him; when I had lost all my
strength, He was teaching me to submit all that I had to Him; when I
could not see any hope and future ahead, He was teaching me to trust
in Him with full assurance. While it seemed like my Savior was not
immediately responding to my cries, He was in fact preparing the best
for me, giving me what I needed to strengthen my body, heart, and
soul. While it seemed like my Savior was not immediately responding to
my cries, He was in fact preparing the best for me, giving me what I
needed to strengthen my body, heart, and soul.

“But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these
things will be given to you as well” (Matthew 6:33 NIV). God’s
promises never fail. When I learned to submit during hard times and
seek His kingdom and righteousness first, He led me to understand
truth. He helped me face life challenges such as the loss of a loved
one, family conflicts, pressure from school, etc. He also healed my
heart and health (I went from 55 kg to 67 kg). He strengthened my
faith so that I could share Christ’s love with my family, bringing
harmony and laughter into a family originally filled with strife. I
even had the chance to invite them to go to church with me.

Reflecting on this journey, I cannot help but praise this amazing and
great God. Perhaps all of us have asked God this question before. But
if we learn to view it from a different perspective, we will be able
to see how He is teaching us submission through trials, reliance
through infirmity, and trust through weakness. And one day, as we look
back on our experiences, we will exclaim, “Lord, thank you that You
have chosen me!”



