http://ymi.today/2015/10/when-i-got-lost-in-different-worldviews/

When I Got Lost in Different Worldviews

Author: by Contributor

Written by Chronika Febrianti, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

What is your “worldview”? What beliefs and values govern the way you
perceive the world around you?

Just like how wearing colored lens will affect how we see things, our
worldview will affect how we make sense of the things that happen
around us, and determine what stand we take in life. For example, a
person who thinks that we only live once (ie. YOLO) will be more
likely to go to extreme lengths to fulfil his or her desires without
thinking about the long-term consequences.

For me, it wasn’t an easy process trying to determine what my
worldview was. It began when I read a book about worldviews, entitled
TH1NK series: Worldviews. It summarized the key points about various
beliefs and religions around the world, and compared them with the
Christian faith. It helped me to see clearly that while there were
similarities across different worldviews, there were fundamental
differences between the belief systems.

Little did I know that what I had read was merely a peek into the
complex world of worldviews. My conviction would be tested to its full
extent when I started taking a course in philosophy, as part of my
undergraduate studies at the Faculty of Cultural Sciences in the
University of Indonesia. It exposed me to different ways of thinking,
as well as worldviews such as humanism, feminism, and some eastern
philosophy that got me questioning the “lens” I had used since my
childhood—that of Christianity.

The more worldviews I came across, the more I kept changing my “lens”,
and at the end, I found myself very confused about what I actually
believed in. Just like a person who built his house on the sand, my
faith was in a state where it could collapse anytime. It didn’t help
that I kept all my doubts to myself.

For example, I came to be acquainted with biologist and atheist
Richard Dawkins’ idea of “the selfish gene”. Building on Charles
Darwin’s theory of evolution, he argued that the genes that get passed
down from one generation to the next are those that look out for their
own interests. And even in instances where the individual seems to act
altruistically, it’s actually because the gene knows that by helping
related organisms reproduce, it’s succeeding in making “copies” of
itself—so it is essentially still being selfish.

As a result, the Christian teaching of selflessness and love suddenly
did not make sense to me. I stopped attending church and lost interest
in Christianity, as well as in any religion that advocated love.

One day, however, a friend told me about the life of the apostle Paul,
whose example went against “the selfish gene”. Although he knew that
spreading the gospel of Jesus would cost him his life, he continued to
do so with great fervor. I started to see that the selfish gene theory
was not always applicable. It made me even more confused about what to
believe in.

But I started to realize that what I had read in the book about
worldviews was true. More importantly, I was reminded about the need
to pray and fill my mind with God’s Word, as the highest authority in
Christian faith. More importantly, I was reminded about the need to
pray and fill my mind with God’s Word, as the highest authority in
Christian faith. All along, I had been trying to understand
Christianity by comparing it with other worldviews, based on my own
limited understanding and assumptions. I had never really sought what
God had to say about Himself and about His love. No wonder I was
confused. If we do not seek the truth from the source of all truth, we
can’t claim to live in truth.

Right now, I still have some questions and doubts that I have not
found the answers to. But as I continue to read my Bible carefully,
God encourages me with His Word: “Keep this Book of the Law always on
your lips; meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to
do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and
successful. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not
be afraid; do not be discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with
you wherever you go” (Joshua 1:8-9).

Are you going through the same thing? If you feel confused by the
differences or similarities between religions, here’s my advice: don’t
keep your questions and doubts to yourself. Find somebody whom you can
talk to (it could be your pastor, spiritual leader, or cell-group
leader) to help clarify your thinking. And make sure to consult God
himself, the source of Truth. Read His Words, carefully and
faithfully.

Photo credit: martinak15 / Foter / CC BY

