http://ymi.today/2017/04/depression-led-me-to-jesus/

Depression Led Me to Jesus

Author: by Contributor

Written by Michelle Lai, Singapore

My depression started in December 2006; there was no trigger. I just
remember feeling sad on a school trip to Japan and tired all the time.

It continued on into 2007, the year of my O-level exams. I had brain
fog and I could not concentrate; I often had to re-read sentences.
This affected my studies and subsequently, even my relationships.
There was a constant dull pain in my chest, and I felt like crying or
vomiting all the time. I remember crying and vomiting on my Biology
textbook the day before the exams as I tried in vain to prepare.

By that time, I was so depressed that I applied to a school which very
few of my classmates were going to, as I just wanted to get away from
everybody I knew. I did not expect to make it to junior college
because of my situation. Miraculously, I did well in my exams and was
accepted into a Christian junior college.

But when lessons at the new school started, I skipped classes. I did
not know that I was depressed at the time. All I knew was that
something was wrong and I really needed help. I did not know where to
find help, so I sought escape instead. I would either lie to my
parents that there was no school, or I would wander the neighborhood
in my school uniform instead of attending school.

One day, my teacher called me on the phone and said that he wanted to
talk to me about my attendance in school. He wanted to know if I was
facing any problems. After talking to me, he gently suggested that I
see the school counselor. The school counselor suspected that I had
depression and referred me to a doctor. Eventually, I was diagnosed
with Major Depression and I was given medication to take.

During one of my counselling sessions with the school counselor, she
asked me if I knew God and what Jesus had done on the cross. I replied
that I understood a little, as all the schools I had attended were
Christian schools. I remember crying in primary school during a Good
Friday service when I first heard about Jesus dying on the cross. Back
then however, I told myself that I could not accept Christ as I did
not want to upset my mother, who was of another religion. So when my
school counselor told me that God—not just my family—loved me so
deeply that He sent His Son to die on the cross for me so that I can
have life in abundance, I simply nodded.

Sometime later, my mum asked my uncle to bring me to church; she felt
that her god and religion were not helping me. But she had one
condition: I was only to visit church, but not to become a Christian.
So I went to church with my uncle and listened to sermons.

I also started reading an autobiographical book about a woman who
escaped from a cult. Though the book did not mention Jesus, reading it
made me feel very blessed to be in an environment where I could know
God, the one who loves us so much that He sent His only Son to die for
our sins. Though the book did not mention Jesus, reading it made me
feel very blessed to be in an environment where I could know God, the
one who loves us so much that He sent His only Son to die for our
sins. This led me to accept Christ in my heart and I prayed to receive
Christ at the next counselling session. Although I was worried about
my mother’s reaction, I decided to tell her. Sure enough, she was
unhappy, but thankfully, she did not scold or hit me.

Today, my depression is under control with the help of medication and
I consider myself healed as I am functional and well. I do my quiet
time daily and I meditate on God’s words and promises whenever
negative thoughts enter my mind. I also think of my journey battling
depression and how God has constantly shown me mercy and grace though
it all.

As I look back, I realize that I would never have become a Christian
if I never had depression. While I’m not saying that depression is a
good thing, I am reminded of Romans 8:28, “we know that in all things
God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called
according to his purpose.”

My journey towards God is nothing short of miraculous. Without Him, I
would never have gotten the results I got for my O-level exams; I
would never have gone to the Christian Junior College; I would never
have met my school counselor. Without God’s divine intervention, I
would never have received timely treatment for my depression.

To add to the list of miracles from God, my mother now talks to me
about Jesus and church, although she is not yet a believer. And not
only does she allow me to be a Christian, she even encourages me in my
walk.

Praise be to God!

