http://ymi.today/2017/04/my-awful-baptism-story/

My Awful Baptism Story

Author: by Contributor

Written By Soo Yi, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

Holding a sunflower stalk, I waited at the foot of the stage. That
day, my cell group member was getting baptized. When the pastor
congratulated her with a hug, a huge smile spread across her face as
tears streamed down her cheeks. Everyone stood up and clapped. I
followed the rest of my cell members to surround her and handed her
the sunflower. As I put my arms around her, I started to tear as well.

Since returning to God just a year ago, I had witnessed many touching
baptism ceremonies. The joy written on each of the candidates’ faces
never failed to move me. On some occasions, I would even feel envious.
If only I had experienced the same joy during my own baptism as a
teenager!

Growing up in a Christian family, I attended a traditional church when
I was young. At the time, it was like attending a social gathering; it
was an opportunity to meet up with and mingle with friends. The Bible
stories I heard at church sounded like fairy tales to me, so I didn’t
pay much attention to them. I also had a superficial understanding of
the Bible: although I heard about Jesus, I wasn’t really interested to
find out who He was, and I didn’t think He had anything to do with me.
I used to wonder how one could believe in or rely on a God who was
invisible. Slowly, I stopped going to church whenever there was an
opportunity to skip it; I went only when I didn’t want to face my
mother’s incessant nagging.

In my church, you could be baptized once you turn 15. So my mother and
Sunday School teacher signed me up for baptism classes. However, I was
clueless about the significance of baptism; the classes were a mere
formality to me.

On the day of my baptism, I didn’t feel particularly joyful or happy.
Instead, I was hoping for the ceremony to end quickly. To make matters
worse, a fellow brother-in-Christ who was supposed to be baptized on
the same day suffered a spiritual attack. As a result, I was afraid to
attend church for several days following the episode. As far as I was
concerned, being baptized made no difference to my life.

Some years later, I stepped out of the comfort of my home for the very
first time to pursue an education overseas, in Taiwan. I was
immediately drawn to the glitz and glamor of the outside world. At the
same time, being alone in a foreign land, I was insecure and
unfamiliar with my surroundings. So, when I finally made friends with
a fun-loving group of individuals, I became very reliant on them and
would follow them everywhere, including to karaoke outlets, pubs, and
night clubs. Over time, however, a sense of emptiness crept in. I also
felt it was unsafe going to those venues and having to return to my
accommodation on my own every night. Yet, despite not enjoying those
outings, I continued to go with my friends for fear of losing them if
I stopped.

At the time, one of my seniors who was a Christian would invite me to
attend her church every week. I went a few times, but found the
service too boring, so I ignored her subsequent calls. It was only
when I felt I could not continue living this way, that I started to
think about church again. I contacted my senior and told her I wanted
to attend church. However, nothing much changed when I did so. I still
had my doubts about the faith, so I didn’t attend church regularly.

One day, my senior invited me to watch a play organized by the church.
It was about a girl who used to have a close and joyful relationship
with God, but was later enticed by worldly temptations like money,
desires, and beauty. She started to drift away from God, unaware that
God was calling out to her. But God didn’t give up on her. When the
girl decided to break free of the temptations, God pulled her back to
Him.

I was deeply convicted and moved by the play; I felt as though I was
the girl and God was using this play to reach out to me. By the end of
the play, tears were streaming down my face. I felt disappointed with
myself. As my senior accompanied me back to my accommodation, I kept
sobbing throughout the journey. For the first time that night, I
prayed a very long and solemn prayer, asking God to forgive me and to
help me break free from all the worldly things that were unsettling
me. For the first time that night, I prayed a very long and solemn
prayer, asking God to forgive me and to help me break free from all
the worldly things that were unsettling me. I prayed that I would get
to know God intimately and return to Him wholeheartedly.

That was my turning point. From that point onwards, I felt as though
God had woken me up spiritually. I wanted to attend church, be a part
of a cell group, and rebuild my relationship with God. Amazingly, I
also felt more at peace and was able to turn down invites to the
places I used to visit. I no longer felt insecure and tempted by the
things of the world. I started to attend church regularly and serve
actively in various ministries. The more I got to know God, the more
joyful, peaceful, and secure I felt.

Looking back now, I can see clearly how God’s love remained true
despite my awful baptism experience and my years of rebellion.
Although struggles and challenges didn’t disappear from my life, they
prompted me to draw near to God and rely on Him more. Through each
difficult moment, God’s tender love has never failed to guide me
through. I have finally understood what it means to have faith and
trust in a God who is unseen.

