http://ymi.today/2017/05/battling-futility-in-motherhood/

Battling Futility in Motherhood

Author: by Charmain Sim

My baby cries. I look at the clock and sigh. Quickly, I finish drying
the plate and get him from his cot. Here we go again.

There are some women who have a strong innate calling to motherhood. I
was one such woman. I was eager for children and did not make the
decision with my husband flippantly.

But when I did become a mother to a little bundle of joy last
December, my happy expectations slowly withered away. I learned just
how many things will not go my way—especially when sleep is involved.

My baby is a light sleeper who overtires easily, so my goal is to make
sure he catches enough sleep. It is an ongoing cycle that never seems
to end. But on occasions, when it seems as though I’ve finally cracked
the magic code, something new—such as a developmental milestone or a
change of surroundings—throws a spanner in the works. All my effort
goes down the drain, and the struggle to get my baby to sleep becomes
mentally defeating and tinged with tears.

I know that caring for a baby is tough, comprising days of unfinished
plans and nights of interrupted sleep. I was ready for that. But I
wasn’t ready for the sense of futility that came with it. Overcome by
exhaustion and frustration, I lost sight of the call of motherhood
that had shone so brightly months earlier. I found myself asking,
“What is the point when I fail every day?”

The thing is, I know the general purpose of parenting. I know that we
are to “start children off on the way they should go, and even when
they are old they will not turn from it” (Prov. 22:6). A good book on
parenting I read said that parents are to demonstrate the gospel to
little ones. But at this stage of babyhood, I need a purpose more
specific than that to anchor me down. How am I supposed to share the
gospel to a baby who’s only just started babbling?

I prayed for a light bulb moment. Instead God answered me in a whisper
of a thought from 1 John 3:16, “This is how we know what love is:
Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our
lives for our brothers and sisters.” God revealed that my purpose this
season is to demonstrate—and to grow in—selfless love. God revealed
that my purpose this season is to demonstrate—and to grow in—selfless
love.

I understand now that through parenting, I am to learn what it means
to love unconditionally. There is nothing my son can do for me in
return for all my efforts. Sometimes it even feels as though he’s
making it harder.

But that’s not all. Now that I have a child, I am responsible for this
person for the rest of my life—or at least until he becomes an adult.
That means no giving up. No surrendering. It teaches me how to live
out the second commandment to love others as myself. I had thought
that marriage teaches that, but parenthood brings it up a notch. It’s
really learning to give of myself, my time, nourishment, and words—to
give my best essentially—because this little human deserves nothing
less.

It’s amazing how one’s attitude can change the minute one has a clear
purpose. I still face the daily challenge of making sure my son sleeps
enough. Yes, I’m still tired and still fail. My son is still a light
sleeper. But I don’t feel bitter about it anymore. Purpose has helped
me find peace, nurture patience, and practice grace through the little
acts of feeding, playing with and comforting my child.

There are various dimensions to the role and purpose of motherhood.
But to me, the one that sums it up the best is this: To love
selflessly in its fullest. And that is how I can demonstrate the
gospel to my baby.



Charmain has a thing for chocolate, Jane Austen, and extraordinary
stories of ordinary people. A wife and mother of two, she is
uncovering what it means to live as loved, with eyes for eternity. She
writes because it helps her process experiences, and loves being
surprised by God—especially in the little but meaningful moments He
plants into her everyday.



