http://ymi.today/2015/12/3-things-i-learned-about-my-sin-filled-life/

3 Things I Learned About My Sin-Filled Life

Author: by Ian Tan

Ever felt the urge to do something you knew was wrong in God’s eyes,
but stopped because you mustered up the strength and courage to put
off the earthly, ungodly desires of the heart? And then found yourself
going ahead and committing the sin moments later, because the flesh
was weak even though the spirit was willing?

Struggling with sin has become a real challenge for me. From lusting
after material possessions to telling half-truths so that someone I
disliked would get the reputation I felt he or she deserved, the
propensity to sin hasn’t changed much since I came to know God.

Many times, when the urge to sin arose, I would try to flee both the
deed and the thought. But time and time again, that initial response
was not enough: inevitably, I could not hold fast to what I knew was
the right thing to do, and went ahead and sinned anyway.

For a while, this made me doubt whether God was really present in my
life. I was tired of singing about how much I loved Jesus in church on
Sunday mornings, only to find myself in need of God’s forgiveness soon
after. The cycle of acknowledging my wrongdoings and declaring my
repentance to God became tiresome. The cycle of acknowledging my
wrongdoings and declaring my repentance to God became tiresome. Was
there ever going to be a time when all these would end?

Are you facing a similar struggle? Let me share 3 tips I have learned
through my journey.



I have come to recognize and accept that all these reconciliatory
moments with God will continue because of my sinful nature (Romans
3:23). However, every vulnerable moment spent before the Most High God
is an opportunity to remember how undependable my own moral compass
is. Because sin has placed me in a hopeless state, I need to go to a
hope-filled God constantly—a God who conquered sin (1 Cor 15:57).



Thinking that I could walk into a sin-filled environment or situation
and be able to withdraw anytime I needed to simply because I knew
Jesus has proved to be a deadly mistake. Even when Joseph was tempted
by Potiphar’s wife to commit adultery with her, his response was to
run away—literally. He didn’t even stay a moment to consider it. Even
just entertaining sinful thoughts can place us in compromising
situations. When in doubt, flee.



I believe that one of the devil’s main master plans is to wear us out
with the guilt of past sins, and to trap us into believing that God
has given up hearing us apologize for the wrongs that we continue to
do. The more we focus on our guilt, the more time we lose to live
upright lives for Jesus. Instead, let’s remember that the very same
God whom we fear would reject us, has died for us so that we may have
eternal life. God sees our struggles, knows our guilt, and gives Jesus
to heal our brokenness. The Bible tells us of God’s response to our
sin in Romans 8:34: “Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who
died—more than that, who was raised—who is at the right hand of God,
who indeed is interceding for us.’



In my struggle with sin and repentance, I have learnt to keep running
back to Jesus. Although I have been saved, it does not mean that God
is done with me. I am very much still a work-in-progress where the
pursuit of holiness is concerned. But I can keep striving towards
living an upright life, knowing that Jesus walks with me on this
journey.



Ian is a proponent of Steve Jobs’ fashion style — black t-shirt and
jeans are all you need in your closet. While you would usually find
him talking to people, he’s actually an introvert and his favorite
colour is green. Staying behind his camera capturing the beauty of
God’s creation is where he’s most comfortable. If push comes to shove,
he would rather jump out of a plane than sit on a roller coaster. But
when it comes to potato chips, you can always find a supporter in him.
Anytime, anyplace.



