http://ymi.today/2015/11/are-you-running-on-an-empty-tank/

Are You Running on an Empty Tank?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Joy-Ann Wood, West Indies

When I was getting ready to leave the house one day, my father said to
me, “Better pump gas in the car, or else you might run out on the
highway, you know . . .” I laughed at his comment and replied, “Nah, I
got this covered. I’m sure there’s enough gas to take me to my
destination and back.”

Despite this reassurance, he still insisted that I top up my fuel
tank. Later, as I drove down the highway, I pondered his advice. Could
I really make it to my destination and back before the fuel gauge
indicator hit “empty”? I had heard stories from a few friends about
running out of gas while driving. I could never understand how that
could happen, since the indicator always warns you ahead of time that
the gas is running out.

This experience parallels our Christian journey. Many times, we take
this daring step of travelling on “empty.” Despite knowing we are
“empty,” and that we need to spend more time with the Lord, we ignore
the Holy Spirit’s nudging. We claim that “we’re okay,” and we tend to
be “fine” once we are involved in Christian activities. However, if we
lack daily time alone with Jesus, we’re like a car travelling on
“empty”, in danger of coming to a sudden halt anytime.

Sometimes, it’s our busy schedules that lead us to running on “empty”.
We get engrossed in teaching Sunday school or volunteering in Youth
ministry, singing in the choir, or being involved in dance or drama
ministry at church. We take the source of our strength for granted and
busy ourselves with rushing from one event to another. We fall into
the trap of spending less time with God while finding other ways to
keep ourselves going. But suddenly, everything comes to a standstill
when we burn out or lose sight of our purpose.

Jesus is calling us to spend time with Him, so that we may be
strengthened through the power of the Holy Spirit to serve and give
our ultimate best for Him. Jesus is calling us to spend time with Him,
so that we may be strengthened through the power of the Holy Spirit to
serve and give our ultimate best for Him. When a car is filled up with
gas, it tends to go farther without having to stop suddenly for more
gas. If we fill up our spiritual tank with time set aside for God, He
will equip us with the power to serve humbly,  persevere through
trials, and stay focused on Him for the rest of our lives.

Be intentional about spending time with Jesus. Running on “empty”
causes us to lose heart easily and prevents us from giving our best
for Him.

“You, God, are my God, earnestly I seek you; I thirst for you, my
whole being longs for you, in a dry and parched land where there is no
water.” —Psalm 63:1

