http://ymi.today/2016/03/why-i-look-forward-to-heaven/

Why I Look Forward to Heaven

Author: by Contributor

Written By Tabita Cioloca, Romania

Stories have been a part of my life since I was a kid.

Before I could read, my grandpa and my mum used to read them to me.
When I was old enough to read on my own, I would be found in the
company of books for hours. Sometimes I would even read in bed,
shining a torchlight under the blanket so that I wouldn’t disturb my
sleeping grandma. Reading with a torchlight also added a sense of
adventure. I enjoyed being able to be someone else, to be part of
adventures I could never experience without the help of books.

I was particularly intrigued in sci-fi, fantasy, and fairy tales—and
the biblical book of Revelation. But my interest in the apocalypse
also gave me nightmares about monsters and beasts. As a child, I knew
that God was powerful, but I didn’t have a personal relationship with
Jesus. One of my biggest fears was that I would not be able to survive
the last days when the anti-Christ came to earth.

As I grew older, I started wondering why there was so much difference
in what was said about the end times. Who had the real answer? Could
anyone claim to be able to predict the future? While reading books
gave me some answers, the contradictory accounts triggered even more
questions. Some of them seemed like fairy tales, or appeared to say
something else apart from what God promised—which, given my
inclination towards fiction, I was tempted to believe.

But since knowing Jesus personally and experiencing His love, peace,
and answer to prayers, I have come to be convinced that the Bible is
true. In moments of doubt or temptation, remembering that Jesus
prevailed amid temptation by holding onto God’s word has been a huge
encouragement. I can also draw strength from the words and promises
that Jesus gave us, including those about the end times.

Recently, my fellowship group has been studying the book of Revelation
and I have been amazed by the richness of the symbolism and references
used to describe the end times. Jesus is said to be returning on a
white horse, which represents royalty and power. Another fact that
struck me is that in the New Jerusalem, there is no church. That is a
unique image—a city without a cathedral. In heaven, we won’t need to
have a specific place to meet God. Communion with Him will be intimate
and unlike anything we’ve experienced.

While I know that not everyone will agree on the details when it comes
to the matter of Christ’s return—how and when—knowing that He is
definitely coming is a blessed assurance. Knowing that all the beauty
we see now, such as the sheer majesty of clouds and the brilliance of
rainbows, will be intensified when we reach heaven brings me a sense
of peace like no other. Knowing that all the beauty we see now, such
as the sheer majesty of clouds and the brilliance of rainbows, will be
intensified when we reach heaven brings me a sense of peace like no
other.

I’m currently completing my university studies in Scotland and one of
my dreams is to be able to see the Northern Lights. Unfortunately,
I’ve missed numerous opportunities to see it. Though that disappoints
me, knowing that I will be able to see even prettier things than the
Northern Lights one day brings me great comfort and joy. On top of
that, knowing that Jesus himself will be physically present and that
we will see Him face to face warms my soul.

If the beauty of creation marvels you, remember that there is a lot
more to come! Yes, heaven is real— more real than our feelings, and
more imminent than we can possibly imagine.

Are you ready to meet the King of Kings? Are you ready to rejoice over
His magnificent new creation? Are you ready to experience His love
more deeply than you ever did? Are you ready to feel His touch and
embrace?

