http://ymi.today/2015/08/whom-will-you-go-to/

Whom Will You Go To?

Author: by Phoebe Cheong

Written By Phoebe Cheong, Singapore

Imagine you’re in deep trouble. Some people are after you and you need
somewhere to hide. Home isn’t an option—they know where you live. Whom
will you go to? A dependable friend, probably. Someone you can trust,
who is reliable, and who is always on your side.

Does it sound familiar? That’s what David was facing when he went to
his friend Jonathan for help. That put Jonathan in a tricky situation.
His father, King Saul, hated David and wanted to kill him. He had to
choose between his own father and his best friend. Jonathan, however,
stuck by David, risking his father’s wrath—and quite possibly, his
life. His friendship saved David, as it helped David continue serving
in Saul’s court despite the threat to his life.

The story of David and Jonathan is often seen as one of the classic
examples of friendship. Few of us are likely to go through what they
did and have our friendships tested to that extent, but we may have
our own experience of the value of friendship. I had mine when I spent
the last six months living in another country, where I was overwhelmed
by the new environment, new culture, new things to get used to, and
different ideas that people had. Thankfully, a friend stuck by me and
made effort to keep up with me over Skype, despite the different time
zones. Talking to her helped me keep an eternal perspective on all
that I was going through, so that I would not get caught up in the
busyness of life. Talking to her helped me keep an eternal perspective
on all that I was going through, so that I would not get caught up in
the busyness of life.

In his book Leap Over A Wall, author Eugene Peterson says friendship
is an underestimated aspect of spirituality. Friendship, he says,
“takes what’s common in human experience and turns it into something
holy”. Peterson cites the example of David and Jonathan as friends
whose goodness and loyalty to each other serve to contain Saul’s evil.

There are things we can learn from David’s experience in Saul’s
hostile court. Regardless of where we are, we are likely to face
difficult people, unfriendly situations, and tough decisions. We also
have many adjustments to make and things to look out for, as our
environment is constantly changing. Amid all the chaos, we may lose
track of what is important, or feel like giving up entirely. But God
has given us friends to remind us to anchor ourselves in Him, enabling
Him to mould us through our everyday experiences.

In this crazy world, we need good friends who can ground us and direct
our thoughts towards eternity. And we need to be good friends to
others too. Let’s take time to appreciate the Jonathans in our lives,
and learn to direct our friends to God.



Phoebe considers a perfect day to be one with occasional conversation,
her puppy Oscar, and a long walk with God. However, she recognises
that perfect days don’t always happen and is willing to shift things
around as long as there’s a cup of coffee in the immediate vicinity.
She believes that God’s hands are the safest place in the world and
that weird is always, always a compliment.



