http://ymi.today/2017/10/the-insanity-of-faith/

The Insanity of Faith

Author: by Contributor

Written By Adelena Oh, Singapore

Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what
we do not see. (Hebrews 11:1)

It seems crazy to believe in something that’s not there yet, to have
complete certainty that something’s going to happen even though there
is no physical evidence. Yet Hebrews 11:1 describes faith as exactly
that.

Let me put things in context. Some months ago, I went to Japan for my
first short missions trip that was part of the missions training
programme I was attending, partly because I was hoping to determine
whether Japan would be my first destination as a full-time missionary
in the near future.

But challenges arose right from the start.

Expectation: I would purchase my air tickets at the same time as the
others going on the trip, and have enough funds for accommodation and
other costs by a certain point in time.

Reality: Less than three weeks before we were supposed to leave, I was
still short of over a thousand dollars for both my ticket and
expenses.

At first, I was confident that the Holy Spirit would deliver, as I
drew on previous experiences when He had miraculously provided money
for two overseas school trips. But as the trip grew closer without a
change in my situation, anxiety began to creep in like a hum that
gradually grew louder.

“I’m obeying Your call and doing all this for You, but why isn’t the
road smooth?” I cried out to God. “Why is it still so hard?”

Eventually, the low hum of anxiety grew into a high-pitched shriek,
and I just broke down late one night in my living room. I cried out to
God—with real, big ugly sobs and snot. Every fear and doubt was laid
bare before Jesus. I told Him there’s no way I could do anything
without Him and thanked Him for all the countless incredible things He
had already done in my life. And that’s when I experienced, more than
ever before, the fact that God is close to the brokenhearted (Psalm
34:18).



Sometimes, we mistakenly believe that just because we’re following
God’s call, there won’t be obstacles along the way. One of the biggest
struggles I have faced is finding the patience to trust and wait on
God’s timing instead of imposing my plans on His.

As humans, we seem to love control. Control over our circumstances,
our future, and maybe even the people around us. However, trying to
control our lives can be a dangerous thing. Trying to govern our lives
independently shows a lack of faith in God’s ability to govern our
lives, and without faith, it is impossible to please Him, let alone
accomplish His purpose in our lives (Hebrews 11:6). Trying to govern
our lives independently shows a lack of faith in God’s ability to
govern our lives, and without faith, it is impossible to please Him,
let alone accomplish His purpose in our lives (Hebrews 11:6).

While trusting in God’s plans—which are not always clear to our human
minds—can feel incredibly scary, trying to control our lives on our
own gives us nothing but a false sense of security. After all, our own
plans are hardly bulletproof, and definitely not as good as God’s
plans.

Of course, it was still a struggle to keep trusting God as the trip
drew nearer. “He told you to go to Japan yet He’s still not moving
now?” That thought surfaced in my mind two weeks before the trip. But
two weeks are eternity to a God who can do anything in a heartbeat.

When we come to a tight spot in our faith, we will inevitably break
down. But we may respond in two ways: We either end up accusing God of
not being good, or we surrender all our worries, fears, and
heartbrokenness to Him.

Only one outcome is favorable.

That moment of surrender, however, usually doesn’t happen overnight. I
struggled for weeks as I maintained a happy, worry-free façade, even
during my personal time with God. My pride didn’t want to admit that
my faith in my Best Friend was not as strong as I’d thought it to be.
So instead of immediately bringing my mounting fears to Jesus, I
bottled them up, allowing them to fester.



To cut the long story short, everything did work out perfectly in the
end. Funding came in from a myriad of sources: another church, my
mentors, my brother, and some anonymous givers. The timely provision
of sufficient funds—especially by the latter group—had God’s
fingerprints all over it, dispelling any thoughts that it was merely
due to chance.

I went to Japan, helped out at a church’s summer camp, and along with
my best friend organized a craft activity for the kids. Although my
interactions with some of the locals were hindered by my meager
knowledge of Japanese, I got to spend a lot of time with the English-
speaking pastors and missionaries stationed in Tokyo. I couldn’t have
asked for a better experience.

From day one, the moment I touched down at Narita International
Airport, I knew without a doubt that God had called me there and would
be calling me back again. I felt the Holy Spirit’s presence and was
moved to tears as my plane bounced along the landing strip.

One of the things that gripped my heart during this trip was the
reality that less than 2 percent of the people in the country are
Christians, which means more than 120 million people heading to an
eternity of suffering if nothing is done. God showed me His heart,
sorrow and longing for those people, and there’s no way I can turn my
back on that.

That said, I have no clear idea of what I’ll be doing six months from
now; but I know God does. I don’t think we will ever stop being
pestered by doubts, but over time, instead of allowing ourselves to be
swayed, we can learn to give them over to God and simply have faith in
His promises.

Following God’s unknown plan can be nerve-wrecking because we’ll never
know all the details. His words are a lamp that guides us to our next
step, not a floodlight that reveals the entire journey. But we don’t
need to be afraid of not knowing everything as long we’re walking in
line with the One who does know everything.



Adelena is part of the YouTube duo klēsis, where they share stories on
life with Jesus.

