http://ymi.today/2017/05/pregnant-at-18-what-was-i-thinking/

Pregnant at 18, what was I thinking?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Bree Rostic, USA

There was a time I believed that I had it all together.

In my mind, I was the epitome of cool. On top of being an academic
all-star—I had just been accepted into several amazing colleges at the
time—I was a popular cheerleader and was dating a college athlete. At
that moment, nothing could stop me from taking the world by storm and
creating the change I wanted to see.

The only problem was, the only change I really wanted to see was me. I
wanted to be thinner, prettier, smarter and more popular—like all the
celebrities on television. My plan was to pursue a career in the
entertainment industry after college. And although some may have
thought I already had a life worth leading, I wanted more. I wanted to
be better. Like the girls around me who wanted to be thinner, taller,
or more beautiful, I fell into the trap.

But everything in my life changed when I started college. Instead of
growing smaller, I grew larger. Instead of feeling prettier, I felt
uglier. I got tired easily, and that caused my social life and
relationships to suffer and my academic results to slip. I just
couldn’t seem to get my footing. What was going on with me? I had no
idea, and I continued to struggle for months.

It turned out that I was pregnant . . . how could this be? Well, I
knew how—but I never really thought it would actually happen to me. I
never thought that such a huge fall from grace was possible. I was a
role model for young women, coaching cheerleaders, volunteering in
youth ministry . . . and now, pregnant three weeks shy of turning 18.

Suddenly, everything I planned on accomplishing had to shift. What
would I do, what would my family think, how would my boyfriend
respond? And my mom? I had given abstinence and purity a high value,
always saying “a no now is a greater yes later”. Now I had to tell her
that I had failed her. Not only did I feel like I failed her, but I
failed God. My mind began to throb at the magnitude of what pregnancy
meant, let alone raising a child.

For the first time in my life, I realized I didn’t have it all
together. Every time I thought about the needs of my-soon-to-be-child,
I found myself thinking: But what about me? That’s when I realized how
selfish I was and how obsessed I had become about my appearance and
the things of the world.

One Sunday while attending church with my mom, I felt convicted of my
sins. In fact, just being in the building itself made me feel
condemned. There were many people there, but I felt alone. I knew I
couldn’t do this on my own. I needed God. But I didn’t think that God
would have anything to do with my sin—with me.

But something happened that evening. The Holy Spirit ministered to me
and comforted me, and I gave Him my all. I dedicated my life as well
as my child’s life to God. I asked Him to never leave me, to guide me
in this process. That night, I laid all my burdens at His feet and
began to truly follow Him.

I didn’t see a drastic change in my life immediately after that, but
there were small changes. I began to read my Bible and pray. My
thoughts started to shift as well: they were no longer centered on
myself; they were focused on my son, on my boyfriend-turned-fiancé,
and on God.

Today, my son is eight. He has been attending church and learning and
growing in a community of believers with my husband and me. I serve on
multiple ministry teams at church and work in full-time ministry
helping others understand the life-changing wisdom of the Bible. I’ve
had opportunities to speak, teach, and minister to God’s people.

Through this journey, I have learned this: God knows that we will make
mistakes, but He loves us so much that He sent Jesus to redeem and
restore us. His Holy Spirit instructs, teaches and guides us in love;
all we have to do is follow. It took a while for me to realize that my
pregnancy did not just birth a child—it also birthed new possibilities
in my life. It took a while for me to realize that my pregnancy did
not just birth a child—it also birthed new possibilities in my life.

God used it to intervene in my life and draw me back to Him. So now,
instead of chasing after material things and superficial happiness, I
chase after God, serving Him and loving His people. Instead of dancing
in the hopes that I could one day appear in a music video, I dance as
an act of worship. Instead of spending countless hours worrying about
my external beauty, I spend time working on the beauty of my soul.

I won’t say that my journey hasn’t been bumpy or without challenges.
The transition from a selfish teen to a selfless woman has been
grueling. I have lost friendships and opportunities. Being a teen mom,
going to college, getting married, working full-time, joining ministry
and building a new social life has been hard. But I wouldn’t change
anything.

I believe God sometimes allows us to make mistakes when He wants to
get our attention. But He doesn’t leave us there. Instead, He
strengthens us in moments of weakness and adds joy to our sorrows. We
can rest assured that “all things God works for the good of those who
love him, who have been called according to His purpose” (Romans
8:28). Mistakes can be used to bring us closer to God and make us more
Christ-like if we surrender them to Him. God took my mistakes and used
them to show me my purpose of serving and loving His people.

As I look back on my life now, I can say I didn’t get the changes I
wanted but I certainly got the changes I needed. I’m glad God got the
final say.

