http://ymi.today/2017/08/when-fear-stops-you-in-your-tracks/

When Fear Stops You in Your Tracks

Author: by Contributor

Written By Emily Anne Hall, USA

“What an opportunity!” I said to myself, after happily accepting an
invitation to my neighbor’s home for dinner that evening. Six months
ago, the family had emigrated to the United States from a
predominantly Muslim country; this was the first time I had gotten an
invitation from them.

I felt excited at the chance to share Jesus’ love with them and make
them feel welcome. I was also grateful for an opportunity to make
friends with my neighbors—something I learned was more challenging as
an adult in an apartment complex than as a student in a college dorm.
Back then, it seemed as though we all craved relationships so making
friends with other young college students was a natural and easy
affair. Now, with everyone busy with their own families, building
relationships definitely took more effort.

This dinner invitation was indeed a rare opportunity. It also seemed
like something God might have organized. Knowing, serving, and loving
my neighbors well were the things I wanted my life to be about. I
wanted God’s command, “love your neighbor as yourself,” (Matthew
22:39) to be the consistent theme in my life’s story.

But while I knew the dinner was a great opportunity to get to know
people from a diverse background, anxiety, fear, and insecurity filled
my heart throughout the day. By evening, I had worked myself up into a
frenzy, pacing around the living room.

One hour before our scheduled dinner appointment at 5:30 p.m., I began
to wonder: Is it too late to cancel? Maybe it’s not too late. People
cancel plans—it’s a normal part of life, right?

Though I am struck with compassion for those on the margins, who feel
lonely and are in need of community, I was afraid to be the good
neighbor God called me to be. I felt afraid I would say the wrong
thing and turn the family away from engaging with Christians and
Christ forever. I felt afraid that I might not say enough about the
gospel and that my disobedience would grieve the Holy Spirit. I
worried that my neighbors would ultimately reject me.

For years, fear kept me from relationships and kept me blind to the
subtle shift from enjoying being alone to being stuck in loneliness.
As a child, I had a good family and access to friendships, but always
avoided wading too deep into relationships. I felt pressure to do and
say the “right” Christian things so others would think well of me. I
found it difficult to share things from my heart (like my faith) with
people who thought differently from me. These fears caused me to
hesitate to love and let people love me back because the risk of
judgement—real or imagined—was just too big. As I entered adulthood,
my desire for deep relationships and understanding grew but I was
still fearful of rejection.

But over time, God showed me stories in the Bible of how He lifted
those paralyzed by fear and set them onward. Moses held a conviction
for justice, having witnessed the treatment of enslaved people while
growing up. But he was afraid to lead them away to freedom like he was
called to do. And God patiently confronted Moses’ fears with
undeniable truth (Exodus 3:1-4:17). When Moses expressed doubt in his
own ability, God said, “I will be with you,” (3:12). When Moses shared
his anxiety about what to say, God replied, “I will help you speak and
will teach you what to say,” (4:12). Moses’ fear did not vanish, but
he followed God’s command to lead the Israelites out of Egypt. And
sure enough, God was with him and taught him what to say.

“Lord, send someone else.” (Exodus 4:13) I found myself repeating the
same words Moses had said, thousands of years later in my living room.
Afraid of failure and rejection, I prayed to God. I told Him about all
the fears that held me back from leaving my front door. Then God
reminded me of His constant, close presence. He reminded me of the
beautiful life I could be living if I would keep following Him, step
by step. One foot in front of the other. One faithful yes after
another.

My fear did not magically melt away after praying. But because God
reminded me of who He was and who I was, my perspective shifted from
magnifying my fears to magnifying Christ. But because God reminded me
of who He was and who I was, my perspective shifted from magnifying my
fears to magnifying Christ. At 6:30 p.m., I opened my door and walked
downstairs to my neighbor’s apartment.

That evening’s dinner with my neighbors turned out to be a wonderful
time of eating delicious food and getting to know kind people. My
neighbors accepted me right away and listened closely to my stories
about Jesus and Christianity. Now, many dinners later, I have friends
whom I love and who love me too.

Fear almost won that evening. But God’s love for me encouraged me to
go out and love my neighbors by spending time with them and sharing my
faith with them.

When God leads you to do something and a sea of fear starts filling
your heart one drop at a time, choose to follow Him anyway. Be mindful
that the story you’re living shouldn’t be dictated by fear, but rather
motivated by love.

