http://ymi.today/2016/09/blessed-to-bless-others/

Blessed to Bless Others

Author: by Contributor

Written By Amy Cheong, Australia

Three months ago, I took a nervous step off a plane onto Australian
soil (or rather, concrete pavements), after an incredible nine months
in another country. This re-entry to my home country marked the end of
a life-changing journey of working in a developing country.

Having gone through the experience and dealing with reverse culture
shock, I don’t think I’ll ever see Melbourne the same way again. I now
better appreciate the blessings I have back home.



One day, I left my iPhone on my office desk. It caught the attention
of my colleague, who asked me what it was; I told her it was my hand
phone. At home in Australia, my friends refer to it as a “dinosaur” as
it is an old model—a few “iPhone generations” behind most phones in
Australia. “I don’t usually change my phone until it breaks or if my
brother hands me his old one after he’s upgraded his own,” I told her.

Her response shocked me. “Well, for people here, it’s still very new.”

It immediately struck me how many Australians can buy the latest
iPhone without blinking an eye. On the other hand, the vast majority
of people around me could not afford to keep up with the numerous
upgrades and trends.

Since coming back, it’s become clearer to me that the majority of
Australians are blessed with a considerable wealth which much of the
world does not have.



She was a few years older than me, but had never gone to university
because she could not afford to. She had never met her biological
parents, but treated her adoptive family as if they were her own flesh
and blood. She clung onto God more than anyone I had ever met before.
She was dedicated and committed in her work; and was generous with her
time and the little money she had.

Before meeting this lady at the church I was attending, I had never
noticed the array of support and choices that surround me. It’s not as
if I was more “worthy” to be granted access to the choices than she
was; it was simply the fact that she was limited by the environment
she lived in.

Education, health, transport, and community services are easily
accessible and affordable to the majority of people where I live. Each
of us has numerous opportunities to grow, learn, and pursue our
passions, unlike many others in countries around us. By God’s grace,
we face little hindrance and oppression.



In the last three months of my time overseas, an El Nino-associated
drought crippled the supplies of locally-grown produce and left many
people starving. During that period, I didn’t get the chance to eat
onions and carrots. But I could still afford the imported foods which
made it to the aisles of supermarkets—though, of course, the prices
were ridiculously inflated! To be honest, I struggled through this
season (feeling almost like Tom Hanks in Cast Away), but in comparison
to people around me, my “suffering” was minor.

This whole episode made me rethink the way I use certain words. Too
often, I realize, I would say “I’m starving” in first-world kind of
way—casually and flippantly. The truth is, I was so far removed from
poverty that I was barely aware of the everyday struggles people
around the world go through.

As Australians, we are blessed with meals that appeal to both sight
and taste, incredible food artistry, and luxuries that are scarce in
most parts of the world.



May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face shine on
us—so that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all
nations. May the peoples praise you, God; may all the peoples praise
you. May the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you rule the
peoples with equity and guide the nations of the earth. May the
peoples praise you, God; may all the peoples praise you. The land
yields its harvest; God, our God, blesses us. May God bless us still,
so that all the ends of the earth will fear him.—Psalm 67 (My
emphasis)

This psalm has helped me see Australia’s blessings in a bigger
context. The words “so that” shows that God blesses His people with a
purpose: He wants us to make His ways and His salvation known among
all nations.

As a Christian, I’ve been challenged to think about how I am using my
wealth, choices, and resources for His glory. As a nation, we need to
consider how we are reflecting His ways to other countries.

With all that we have been blessed with, it’s my prayer and hope that
we continue to remember those beyond our borders. Our individual
choices reflect not only our collective nation, but also the God we
believe in.



This article was first published here under the title “Blessed Beyond
Borders”. This version has been edited by YMI.

