https://ymi.today/2017/12/christmas-can-be-a-time-of-loneliness/

Christmas Can Be a Time of Loneliness

Author: by Michele Ong

The Christmas season sometimes feels like an incredibly lonely one for
me, and listening in on other people’s exciting holiday plans makes
things worse.

“Am I the only one doomed to be spending Christmas holed up in
Auckland with my family?” I think.

While there is nothing wrong with hanging out with my family, I’m
envious of my friends and work mates, with their plans for travelling
out of town to visit grandparents and long-lost relatives, or spending
time with close friends. I envision them piling into the car, their
trunk filled with luggage and presents, as they drive out of Auckland,
away for a fabulous time.

As for me, my Christmas holidays usually involve four long days of
doing nothing, apart from sleeping in, watching DVDs, and attending
church on Christmas morning. Furthermore, with all the shops closed on
Christmas Day, the feeling of isolation and loneliness has a way of
seeping into my spirit.

There are no relatives for my family to visit, as all of my extended
family had stayed on in Malaysia when my family moved to New Zealand
almost two decades ago. So Christmas is usually a very quiet affair
spent with my parents and my sister.

Many years ago, when Christmas cards were still sent and received, I
would line our window sill with cards in a bid to keep our living room
cheerful. But upon closer inspection, you’d see the cards were mainly
from local businesses, real estate agents, and the church. A few would
be from friends.

We also had a Christmas tree, and while it wasn’t a tree that would
win awards, we did our best to decorate it with red and gold baubles,
wooden soldiers, and angels. If you looked under the tree, however,
you’d find presents that looked like they had been hastily stuffed
back inside their wrapping, with torn corners and curling cellophane.
Some were just props—empty boxes wrapped in colorful paper. The
presents with the torn edges were my birthday gifts (my birthday is
four days before Christmas, so I do get a few 2-in-1 gifts), which I
had opened only to rewrap them for the tree.

My family doesn’t quite do Christmas the way other families might—big
sumptuous lunches, buying gifts for one another, decking our house in
fairy lights and various Christmas decorations. So I guess that’s what
makes our Christmases feel so woeful and lonely.

Occasionally, my family does get invited for a Christmas gathering at
a friend’s home. It involves each family bringing a meal to share and
a present for Secret Santa. Can I tell you how much I dread these
gatherings? I’ve never been keen on hanging out with people I have
never clapped eyes on, and working my plastic cutlery into overcooked
barbecued meats. And then there’s the Secret Santa gift exchange,
which often feels like a dumping ground for cheap unwanted goods or
cast-offs. If you’re lucky, you’d walk away with a box of chocolates.

So yes, Christmas for me is pretty so-so. However, my thoughts and
attitude towards my so-called lonely Christmas changed after I saw
firsthand what a lonely Christmas truly looked like.

A lonely Christmas is the individual I packed a gift box for as part
of my church’s year-end community event, where we gave to people who
would otherwise not receive a present. I remember my pastor telling us
to buy something we thought they would need, something they would
like, and a Christmas decoration. For my chosen individual, I bought a
pair of new pajamas, an autobiography by the late All Blacks rugby
player, Fred the Needle (even had the book signed), and a Christmas
bauble.

A lonely Christmas is the vulnerable woman who had broken away from an
abusive relationship. But she was grateful for the gift of basic
toiletries such as bath soap, toothbrush, and toothpaste, along with a
gift for her child.

A lonely Christmas is the family struggling to pay their bills,
resorting to their local food bank to see them through the season, and
most likely not being able to give presents to their children.

A lonely Christmas is the young mum who desperately wants a food
hamper filled with washing detergent, toilet paper, and canned food.

I believe if we were to ask Jesus what Christmas should be about, He
would say it’s the time to care for the widows and the orphans (James
1:27).

For Jesus, I believe it’ll be about taking the time to reach out to
people who otherwise might not have anyone to spend Christmas with.
Last year, my sister and I invited a friend whose parents live in a
different town, over for a Christmas lunch and gift-giving.

It was a small gathering of three, but we had Christmas foods like
mini-pavlovas and a bottle of sparkling juice. We also tried our hand
at deep-frying a pork dish—the oil went all over the kitchen and
cleaning it was a mess. There was nothing extravagant about the
Christmas lunch and the presents exchanged were hardly excessive, but
it was probably one of my best Christmas memories.

After my eye-opening experience of what a truly lonely Christmas means
for various individuals, I have since made it a habit to buy presents
for my local charity.

Christmas can be a time of loneliness for certain individuals, but I
believe when we reach out to them with love and compassion, we are
also bringing with us a little bit of Jesus into their lives.



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



