http://ymi.today/2017/05/why-am-i-taking-a-gap-year/

Why Am I Taking a Gap Year?

Author: by Constance Goh

I must admit that when I first decided to take a gap year, I might
have started off on the wrong foot.

You see, I was giving different reasons to different people—depending
on who asked. To the friendly taxi driver, I was taking a year off
school to work. To my parents, I was not ready to enter university
since I had no idea what I wanted to study. To Christian friends and
mentors, I needed the time to get back on track with God and to serve
Him in Christian organizations.

That got me thinking. Why didn’t I have a confident and consistent
answer? Was it because I didn’t have a concrete answer? If I were to
be honest with myself, what reasons would I have come up with?

I graduated from a local polytechnic with a media-related diploma two
months ago. I should have headed for further studies right after that,
but months earlier, halfway through my last semester, the thought of
taking a gap year had crept into my mind.

In case you didn’t know, a gap year is an intentional choice by a
student to take a year off school to work, volunteer, or travel. It is
mostly done before or after one enrolls in university. A couple of my
friends were taking this long break. One wanted to spend her time
backpacking round Europe, and another had planned to go to Thailand
with a non-profit organization to help in animal conservation efforts.
Others were looking at taking up internships to help them decide on
what to study in university.

My friends all seemed to have legitimate—even noble—reasons for
wanting to take a gap year. My motivations seemed to pale in
comparison; I felt like I was the only confused one.

In the two months that have passed since I started my sabbatical, I
have come to realize that my motivations were rather selfish. I had
wanted to take a break after three years of studying in the
polytechnic. The late nights and tight deadlines had left me with
little time to relax and I was utterly exhausted. The idea of having
more time to myself for such a long period sounded fantastic. Also, I
had finished a six-month internship with a local newspaper and found
that I preferred working to studying.

Reasoning with myself and my parents, I argued that I didn’t know what
I wanted to study in university—hence I needed the time to “find
myself” and figure it out.

However, I was aware that taking a gap year would mean a very long
break from school. My sabbatical would in fact last 1½ years, because
my academic year ended in February this year and God-willing, my
university course would only begin in August next year. To make sure I
used my time more wisely, I was determined to learn a new
instrument—the ukulele.

All these reasons were not necessarily wrong, but did they truly
glorify God? Where was God in my decision-making process? All these
reasons were not necessarily wrong, but did they truly glorify God?
Where was God in my decision-making process? I had prayed to ask God
what He thought about my gap year, but I had not actively sought His
reply. When I lay on my bed to pray every night, was I asking God to
bless my plans or was I asking God for His plan?

Such thoughts lingered in my head when a sister-in-Christ challenged
me to rethink my motivations for taking the sabbatical. She suggested
that as Christians, our motivations, thoughts and actions should be
very different from that of a non-believer.

I reflected on how I spoke with God every night and realized that
often, I wanted blessings and not direction from God. It was the wrong
way to pray. The deliberate act of choosing to be stuck in limbo was
probably due to selfish reasons on my part. They reflected my personal
inward desires instead of God Himself. However, I believe God can
still use this time to teach me many things—if I am willing to listen.

Reading a recent devotional on Romans, I was very inspired by how Paul
allowed the Gospel to shape his whole person. His identity, mission,
relationships with others, and convictions were so aligned to the
Gospel. It challenged me to think about how I should let God use me,
and how much more I need to surrender my life to Him.

So far, in the past two months, I’ve spent my time serving with
Singapore Youth for Christ to gear up for an evangelistic event in
June. My interest in writing has also led me to join YMI as an
editorial intern. However, even though I’m doing “Christian” things, I
know it is still important for me to pray constantly for God’s
guidance.

I still don’t have the answers to many of the difficult questions I’ve
asked. However, I pray that I will continue to seek God first, to ask
for His direction instead of His approval. May I learn how to discern
what my personal desires are, and what God has called me to do. With
16 more months’ sabbatical to go, I hope to make decisions that will
make God happy instead of those that will make me happy.

I can only plan so much for my gap year. But I am convinced that if I
let God plan for me, He will give me far more than I can ever ask or
imagine.



Constance is an avid reader and a Milo addict. If she is not found
with a book, she is probably watching Korean dramas or jamming on her
guitar to some Coldplay tunes. She enjoys the company of children and
hopes to work among them in the future. As someone who believes that
hardship on this earth is nothing compared to the future glory in
heaven, she takes pride in being able to work hard for God.



