http://ymi.today/2017/09/how-can-good-come-out-of-job-loss/

How Can Good Come Out of Job Loss?

Author: by Contributor

Written by Jonathan Malm, USA

Have you ever lost your job? I have. It feels horrible.

My story isn’t one of rejection. I didn’t get fired, so much as the
job I had no longer existed. The company chose to cancel a conference
it was running, and I was its director. Since my role was no longer
necessary, I no longer had a job. I didn’t get fired—yet it hurt just
as much as if I had been.

When you’re in that situation, it’s hard to see any light at the end
of the dark tunnel. It feels like your world is crashing down around
you. You find yourself asking thousands of questions, whether in your
head or out loud. How will I pay my bills? What’s next? What did I do
to deserve this? How could they? Why would God allow this to happen?
Will anyone ever want to hire me again after this failure? If you keep
a cool head, you might avoid yelling and throwing things, but the
anger will probably still be there.

I experienced all of that. The questions. The anger. But I also
experienced something different. I call it “the hidden option”. I
experienced hope for greater possibilities even though I couldn’t see
the hope clearly.

I’m convinced that God can take everything negative in our lives and
do something creative with it. In Genesis, the story was told of
Joseph, sold into slavery by his brothers. When the tables turned and
Joseph triumphed in spite of their actions, he said this to them: “As
for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to
bring it about that many people should be kept alive, as they are
today.” (Gen 50:20 ESV) God took their evil and turned it to good.

The thing is, I believe God has already created the opportunities for
beauty in our lives. It’s up to us to find them. God seems to
encourage us to be active and diligent in our search of both Him and
His answers—and He promises to respond. In Matthew 7:7 NLT, Jesus told
us, “Keep on asking, and you will receive what you ask for. Keep on
seeking, and you will find. Keep on knocking, and the door will be
opened to you.” Could it be that God wants us to grow in our
persistence and our dependence on him? Could it be that God has hidden
possibilities in your life, and He wants you to keep digging for them?

I have a friend who had this experience when his world crashed down
around him. He was a communications director at a large,
internationally-known church. His pastor was caught in the middle of
scandal, and it was his responsibility to defend both the church and
his pastor. My friend did his best, but he experienced fiery arrows
heading his way from every direction. News outlets even quoted him,
skewing his words to further crucify the pastor and his church. It
felt like a hopeless situation.

It got even worse when the pastor stepped down. The church dissolved,
and my friend was left without a job. Not only that, he felt like he
had a black mark on his name because of his involvement in the
scandal. Who would want to work with a person caught in the middle of
all that failure?

He candidly related his story to me over coffee one day, and I could
tell he felt like that part of his life was a complete waste. He was
doing his best to move past that situation and hoped to let that part
of his life fade into obscurity.

I saw his pain, but I didn’t see that season of his life as a failure.
In fact, I saw it as a stepping stone that God had prepared for him.
He had first-hand experience of something that nearly every megachurch
pastor fears. They all fear that one sound bite taken out of context.
They fear the high-ranking leader in their church exposed for secret
sin. That’s not something many pastors know how to even begin
preparing for, which is where my friend enters the picture.

He saw his experience as something to sweep under the rug, but I saw
it as something that could be used to help these churches. He could
teach these pastors the things he did right and the things he did
wrong. He could help them prepare for potential troubles and put plans
in place for the worst-case scenario. Most churches value protecting
their congregation from the media storm they’ve seen happen at other
congregations, so it’s a service that would be in high demand.

As I shared my idea with him, I saw hope enter his eyes again. When I
shed light on the hidden option, he became excited once again. When
the world seemed to burst in flames around him, there was a brief
clearing in the smoke that could suddenly help it all make sense
again. The hope was there, he just needed some help to see it.

No matter the circumstance for your losing your job, I believe there
is a hidden option out there for you. It’ll be hard to see it because
of the emotions swirling around the situation. But if you’re willing
to look for it, you can find it. Here are some ideas to help you find
the hidden option when you can’t seem to find it.

Life isn’t over. Your ability to earn a living isn’t over. God can
turn the situation around. I’ve seen Him do it in my life and in the
life of my friends. I know He can do it for you too.

