http://ymi.today/2016/07/why-does-god-allow-some-to-suffer-more-than-
others/

Why Does God Allow Some to Suffer More Than Others?

Author: by Contributor

Editor’s note: For a lot of us, COVID-19 has impacted many aspects of
our daily lives. While some have been impacted more than others, none
of us are in this alone. At YMI, we hope that our daily devotionals
and biblical articles will provide you with hope, inspiration, and
biblical guidance. If you’re struggling to cope with the effects of
COVID-19, this piece from YMI about suffering is a good read.

Written By Joshua Woo

Joshua Woo is the special officer to a Member of Parliament in
Malaysia. He was formerly a Presbyterian pastor in Singapore.

At a recent political conference, I had the opportunity to meet
individuals from different countries, many of whom were currently
living amid political uncertainty.

Listening to the struggles they faced in their own countries, I was
intrigued. Some had been imprisoned before. Some were living in exile.
Some were being prosecuted by their governments. Many didn’t have the
opportunity to study, work, or start a family.

The plight of other groups caught my attention as well—the Syrian and
Rohingya refugees, and the victims of human trafficking. The former
were forced to leave their countries and cross borders illegally in
order to survive, while the latter were kidnapped, prostituted, and
traded. I was also gripped by the accounts of those forced to live in
terrible conditions. Some were even murdered, as the recent discovery
of mass graves at the borders between Malaysia and Thailand proved.

As I mulled over their tragic stories, I had to wonder: Why do some
people suffer so much more than others? And what does the Bible say
about this?

Suffering is everywhere

Suffering is everywhere and inevitable. Even around our home, we can
see families who can’t afford more than one meal a day, students
pushed to their limits, workers put out of jobs, elderly folk
abandoned by family members, and migrant workers exploited by
employers.

Suffering is also a key theme in the Bible. It tells us of many
instances where God allows or was even involved in suffering: God
giving Satan the permission to inflict Job (Job 1.8-12), Joseph’s
difficult time in Egypt (Genesis 50:20), Jesus’ suffering on the cross
(1 Peter 2:24), and the persecution of the early Christians (2
Corinthians 1:6-7).

Scripture tells us that some people suffer because of divine
punishment, some for their faith, and some to save others.

Today, the suffering we see around us may be due to one of the above
reasons. But there may be other reasons that we don’t know or don’t
understand. Just like in the past, God knows exactly why He allows
some people to suffer more than others, but He may not always reveal
the reasons to us.

God’s Goodness and Love

What we do know for sure, however, is that God is loving and good.
What we do know for sure, however, is that God is loving and good. We
can stay strong in our hope in Him through such times, even when we do
not have the answer to suffering.

It’s easy to feel a great sense of despair when we see so much
injustice and discrimination around us. But I take comfort from what
the psalmist wrote, “Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; His love
endures forever” (Psalm 107:1).

God’s goodness and love is clearly demonstrated through Jesus, whom He
sent to redeem and save us from our sins when we were still God’s
enemies. “You see, at just the right time, when we were still
powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die
for a righteous person, though for a good person someone might
possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love for us in
this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Romans 5:6-8).

Jesus suffered the greatest injustice of all when He died for sinners
like you and me. So, in moments when we’re suffering for no apparent
reason and we cannot comprehend why, we need only to look at the
cross. As German theologian Jurgen Moltmann once said, “It’s only for
Christ’s sake that I believe in God.”

And God promises that our suffering will not be forever. He will “wipe
every tear” in the coming eternity. “There will be no more death or
mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed
away” (Revelation 21:4).

Because of Christ, we can rest our faith in the good and loving God
despite not knowing why some people suffer more than others. God is
there for them—as He is here for us through Jesus.

