http://ymi.today/2017/06/when-your-heart-is-in-the-right-place-is-it-
enough/

When Your Heart is In the Right Place – Is it Enough?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

“At the end of the day, what matters is whether your heart is in the
right place.”

That was the gist of what I said to my friend Christy* a few days ago,
when we were talking about life in general and how to honor God in our
lifestyles. Perhaps it was not a coincidence that Christy was there to
point out that good intentions are never enough.

Her comment reminded of what another friend had told me: “My heart
tricked me”. Sometime before that, he called and I could hear from his
voice that he was distraught. He had once more succumbed to the
temptation of pre-marital sex; she was beautiful and tenacious, it was
the perfect setting and before he knew it, the damage had been done.

He felt guilty after the act and knew he had to break all contact with
her. He was particularly torn up inside because he didn’t want to hurt
her feelings but he also knew he couldn’t live a life of sin. Breaking
up with her and hurting her feelings was a terrible thing to do, but
encouraging such a relationship was also not an option. He told me the
only reason it had gone that far was that he believed he was falling
in love with her.

However, she was not a Christian and did not believe in waiting for
marriage; he had believed that his heart was in the right place when
he slept with her. He wanted to make her happy, and he felt a natural
extension of showing her he loved her was to give in to what she
wanted. But he also admitted that a part of him did it because he
wanted to.

Christy rightly pointed out that “our hearts being in the right place”
does not necessarily equate to living a lifestyle that pleases God.
Her words caused many verses from Scripture to come to mind. The Bible
warns us that “the heart is deceitful above all things, and
desperately wicked; who can know it?” (Jeremiah 17:9), which is why it
also teaches us, “Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you
do flows from it” (Proverbs 4:23). Or as the New King James Version
puts it, “Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it spring the
issues of life”.

Now, these two verses in conjunction do not necessarily mean that
every intention from our heart is evil. Many saved and unsaved people
alike have done great things stemming from a heart full of kindness.
The former verse shows the fallen nature of man and the sin that
ensues from that fallen nature, which is why so many of us, myself
included, feel this inherent pull to things we know are sin. We lie,
we cheat, we commit adultery, we get tangled in all sorts of vices and
are continually perplexed as to why we keep on acting this way.

The main point to this is that we cannot trust our hearts to tell us
if our intentions are purely good (Jeremiah 17:9). Fortunately, Jesus
pointed us in the right direction, “Where your treasure is, there your
heart will be also” (Matthew 6:21). At first I always thought that
this only meant I should keep my eyes heavenward and that’s my
treasure. But it also means investing in the things of God and not in
the things of the world.



I was reading an excerpt from American authors Allan Kelsey and Jimmy
Evans’s book Strengths Based Marriage, where they highlighted the need
for spouses to make their treasure a passionate relationship with
their significant other. When something is your treasure, you
prioritize it and all your energy is invested in making that venture a
success. A good example is when a person falls in love. It is all-
consuming—you are constantly thinking of them, calling, messaging.

On the other hand, I have a friend who is very goal-oriented. Whenever
her exams come around, I know I won’t be hearing from her till it’s
over. She goes off social media and she does not respond to messages
or even return calls. She literally drops off the grid until her exams
are over. Even though I know she hates to study, she constantly tells
me, “No pain, no gain”. Her treasure is getting an A in her exams, and
nothing comes between her and that goal.

My friend reminded me that it is important to ensure my environment is
free from distraction and optimized to help me achieve my goal: to
attain a life pleasing to God. I have noticed that whenever I get
fully involved in church, volunteer, attend services and Bible study
groups and hang out with Christian friends—that  I know keep me
accountable to my faith—I find myself making progress in avoiding sin
and living a more Godly life.

The more I pray and spend quality time with God, the less I get random
thoughts that don’t glorify God, and the more I find it easier to
love, to overlook offenses, to think of things that are true, noble,
right, pure, lovely,  admirable—anything that is excellent or
praiseworthy. (Philippians 4:8)

I have developed a habit called “the heart check” by periodically
asking myself, “Where is your treasure? In what are you investing most
of your time?”

So I do believe that we can overcome vices by making sure our heart is
in the right place. And as we draw closer to Him, I can testify by
experience that we will slowly begin to lose our appetite for things
that displease Him and start craving the things that please Him.





*not her real name

