http://ymi.today/2015/10/do-we-enjoy-god/

Do We Enjoy God?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abigail Lai, Singapore

For the past few days, I have been ploughing through the book of
Isaiah trying my best to understand what the prophet means. But I have
been growing increasingly anxious, because I don’t seem to be learning
much; nothing applicable has really struck me. In fact, each day, I
barely remember much of the passage for the rest of the day.

So instead of opening my Bible today, I sit and stare at my ceiling
and at a little scribble on my bedside that says, “Jesus loves”.

I can’t hide the feelings of frustration at the lack of tangible
results from Bible reading. I can’t hide the worry that God is not
revealing something to me possibly because there is some unconfessed
sin, or because I am not reading the Bible rightly.

I had thought that consistently setting aside time for Bible reading
and praying meant that my Christian life was healthy and thriving. But
now I wonder: have I missed out something crucial?

“We cannot glorify God, even if we are praying, if we don’t enjoy
him.”—John Piper

I seek to be disciplined in my Christian life, which I see as spending
an hour in the morning and at night reading God’s Word, being
responsible and accountable for my ministry commitments, and leading a
deeply believing and expectant prayer life that gives space for God to
move and work in, through and around me. I believed these made for a
“successful” Christian life.

All these are really good things, and it is good to put effort into
growing and honing these disciplines. But as I struggled to reconcile
the dissonance I felt while I followed these disciplines, I started to
ask what I was truly seeking.

Did I see spending time with God as a daily to-do item to check off?
Did I see my completion of “quiet time” as an indication that my
relationship with God was “ok” for that day so that I could go on to
do other things? Did I see my completion of “quiet time” as an
indication that my relationship with God was “ok” for that day so that
I could go on to do other things? I sought God’s peace, sense of
satisfaction, and fulfilment that He had promised—but did I seek God?

In Jeremiah 2:13, God charges the Israelites with two sins: forsaking
God and pursuing idols. He said: “My people have committed two sins:
They have forsaken me, the spring of living water, and have dug their
own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water.”

Had religiosity become my idol? Had I forgotten that God is my only
spring of living water, and tried to build my own source of spiritual
strength? Had I become so caught up with keeping the spiritual
disciplines, that I forgot to simply delight in the LORD?

Enjoying my time with God is a privilege and is possible because of
His grace. He will rebuke, correct, and train us, so that our hearts
will be turned more and more to recognize how enjoyable He is.

Over the past few days, God has been rebuking me for my attitude as I
embarked on my spiritual disciplines. I thank Him for showing me where
I have gone awry in my walk of faith. What a faithful God we have,
that He would provide for our growth from beginning to end! As we work
out our salvation with fear and trembling, let’s remember to seek God
first and foremost.

