http://ymi.today/2016/12/when-christmas-isnt-the-happiest-time-of-the-
year/

When Christmas Isn’t the Happiest Time of the Year

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USA

With the joyful endings of cheesy, Hallmark movies, comes the
subconscious expectation that somehow during Christmas, everyone will
get along, then snowflakes will fall at precisely the right time and
in a perfect quantity.

It would make a terrible greeting card, but for many people, Christmas
isn’t the “Happiest time of the year”, but actually one of the most
difficult.

For me, this season will forever be tied to the anniversary of the big
car accident that nearly took my life, four years ago and just five
days before Christmas. Of all seasons, it is in this one that my
family and I are most aware of our mortality and that nothing on this
side of heaven can be taken for granted.

A season that often incorporates time with family also makes strained
relationships or absences excruciatingly clear. The annual nativity
plays prepared by my large group of cousins when we were kids provides
a perfect example. Soon after announcing that a play was going to be
attempted, a disagreement would often ensue over who was directing,
the make and model of Mary’s donkey, and the finer points of the bible
story and the parts to be enacted. It would often end with Mary or
Joseph concluding the final rehearsal on non-speaking terms with the
other party.

Our little nativity plays dealt with quite a set of high-maintenance
actors and directors, so problems were aplenty right from the onset,
for instance, pinning down roles. One year, my 5-year-old cousin
exclaimed that he refused to be “no stupid wise shepherd!” Our cast
also included actors with a reputation for quitting just moments
before curtain call.

My family provided foster care for many precious infants, whose
presence sometimes coincided perfectly to allow for a real, live, baby
Jesus in our nativity plays. When this was the case, Mary, and
sometimes a wise man or two, would become aggressive lobbyists for the
job of cradling baby Jesus.

So, on a nearly annual basis, our little plays would unintentionally
point to the real fact of Christmas: its occurrence was an act of
divine intervention, requiring the awe and wonder of all. We would
have kept the true Christmas spirit much more accurately had the
pervading emotion been one of grace for our fellow actors (or sheep,
as the case may be).

While we now laugh off those childish expectations for a Broadway
worthy nativity reenactment, the fact remains that we still
do—consciously or not—set impossibly high hopes of this day, and get
disappointed if it turns out otherwise. Don’t get me wrong, it may
still be one of your best days ever, filled with lots of warm-and-
fuzzy moments and meaningful gifts. But it’s just as likely to be far
from perfect and make you extremely aware that you’re not in heaven
yet.

This year, how about this for a change? Expect that not everything
will be perfect, laugh about the mishaps and then strive to fill your
heart with gratitude. Expect that not everything will be perfect,
laugh about the mishaps and then strive to fill your heart with
gratitude. Shift the focus from your wish list, to the greatest gift
of salvation, which you’ve already received. Let our love for others
flow out of our thankfulness to God for His gift of salvation to us.







