http://ymi.today/2016/12/a-second-look-at-the-christmas-story-blew-my-
mind/

A Second Look at the Christmas Story Blew My Mind

Author: by Contributor

Written By Mackenzie Winkel, USA

A couple of days ago, I went to the park in a T-shirt, shorts, and
sandals. It was 80 degrees Fahrenheit (about 27 degrees Celsius)
outside and felt absolutely nothing like Christmas. In most parts of
the United States, it’s cold—maybe even snowing. But here down south,
in Texas, it’s still warm enough to go swimming.

To get into the Christmas spirit, I decided to walk home and read the
Christmas story in Luke 2. What started as a casual attempt to get
into the Christmas spirit resulted in a mind-blowing realization of
God’s humility, power, and sacrifice. Here’s what I realized: Instead
of opting to come into this world in a display of power to gain our
trust right away, Jesus gained our trust by humbly entering into this
world—as a baby in a manger.

The Bible includes multiple accounts displaying the power of God. God
destroyed the world in a flood—but saved Noah and his family—to punish
humanity for their wickedness. God worked through Moses, one of his
followers, to part the sea so that His people, the Israelites, could
walk through. Jesus himself also displayed His might, later in His
life, by raising the dead.

So if God is capable of these amazing acts of power and might, why did
He send His son, Jesus, in the way Luke 2:7 described: “(Mary) wrapped
him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no guest
room available for them”? After all, Jesus is God himself—the creator
and the protector. Jesus is the one who would, just 33 years later,
die on the cross and save all of humanity from our destiny of hell. He
is the all-powerful, all-knowing, and all-present God. So why would
God send His son in such a small way?

Think about this: If Jesus came on a cloud of fire with angels
surrounding Him and thunder filling the air, people would have
immediately followed Him. But most of these people would likely have
followed Him out of fear or compulsion—not because they chose to.
Instead, Jesus chose to lead by example. He gained our trust through
the way He spoke, lived, and loved. Jesus chose to lead by example. He
gained our trust through the way He spoke, lived, and loved.

God desires a personal relationship with us, as a loving father and
not as a dictator. He wants us to follow Him because He is good, not
because He’s an evil tyrant who will destroy us the moment we sin.
That’s not at all who God is. He is good, He is kind, and He is
loving.

I used to see God as being distant. I used to see Him as a lion that
would devour me the moment I sin. But now I see that God wants me to
have a relationship with Him because He loves me and created me to
love Him back. Christmas used to be about presents, but now it’s a
time where I get to thank God for sacrificing His son in order to have
a relationship with me.

