http://ymi.today/2016/12/its-2016-hottest-christmas-gift-a-toy-egg/

It’s 2016 Hottest Christmas Gift: A Toy Egg

Author: by Michele Ong

Six months ago, I would have scoffed at the idea that the most wanted
toy for the Christmas season was a toy egg.

Okay, it’s not exactly a toy egg. Inside the egg is a mechanical
stuffed toy animal, and the owner has to “help” it hatch from its egg.
In case you haven’t heard, Hatchimals—as they are called—are one of
the best-selling toys across the world this Christmas.

I know exactly what you’re thinking—Hatchiwhat?

This toy animal requires the owner to hatch it in an interactive
way—by petting the egg, playing with it, and “comforting” it when it’s
upset. And when the time is ready for the wee creature to pop out, you
just need to rub the bottom of the egg while the animal pecks its way
out. Once hatched, the animal goes through a series of life stages,
from baby to toddler to the last stage, a kid.

In New Zealand, the toy is sold out for the Christmas season—to the
dismay of some parents. From what I’ve heard, they will have to wait
till February when a new shipment comes in.

Parents aren’t the only ones scrambling in search of the perfect
Christmas gift for their loved ones. I am among the masses panicking
because I may have left my Christmas shopping too late and missed the
cut-off dates for international delivery.

Although I’m not running around trying to trace down the last
Hatchimal toy available, I’ve been scouring supermarket aisles,
websites, and malls for nice presents that are within my budget.

So far, I have successfully sourced boxes of chocolates, biscuits,
beautifully scented soaps and lotions for my friends. For those
friends living overseas with long, tricky addresses, I have resorted
to buying Amazon gift cards for them. I have also managed to pick up a
few treats for myself along the way (you see, my birthday was
yesterday, just four days before Christmas).

As we rush into this busy season, checking off our shopping lists and
making sure we’ve bought the nicest, cutest presents for the people we
love, it’s so easy to oversee one very important detail: Christmas is
about celebrating Jesus Christ.

What crossed your mind when you thought of Christmas? Was it: “Yay,
it’s Jesus’ birthday! I am so glad He came to walk with us”? Well,
mine was: “Yay, I can’t wait for the holidays! Will need to hang out
with my friends at the beach.” (I live in New Zealand, so it’s summer
time here when Christmas rolls around.)

It reminded me of a story I was once told about a couple who threw a
birthday party to celebrate their child turning a year old.

Friends who turned up for the birthday were shown to the couple’s
bedroom so they could leave their coats and presents on the bed before
making their way to the lounge for food and drinks.

The party went on and on, until someone asked where the child as they
had not heard her cry in a while. This led the worried parents to
search the whole house for their child, only to find their baby—who
had somehow found her way to their bed—suffocated under the piles of
coats and presents of well-wishers.

It’s a morbid story, I know, but the story has stuck with me because
it reminds me of how easily we drown out the real meaning of Christmas
when we’re caught up in the world’s idea of the festive season how
easily we drown out the real meaning of Christmas when we’re caught up
in the world’s idea of the festive season . So if we’ve been moping or
complaining about how we didn’t manage to secure the latest product or
Hatchimal toy this Christmas, perhaps it’s a good time to remind
ourselves why we’re celebrating in the first place. After all, it’s
really not worth our time and energy obsessing over the latest toy
that will likely last us for just a few months before its batteries go
flat, or it breaks down, or it’s pushed out of a market by a newer
toy.

We have already been given the ultimate gift more than 2,000 years
ago, and that’s in the person of Jesus. Jesus was given to us—at
absolutely no expense on our end, because God loves us so very much
(John 3:16). And the Scripture tells us this is no ordinary child.
“For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government
will be on His shoulders. And he will be called Wonderful Counselor,
Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace” (Isaiah 9:6).

Jesus is the most costly and perfect gift God can ever give. And He’s
the only gift we ever need, for He will never disappoint.

So, as we spoil our loved ones with presents and gather round the
dining table for Christmas dinners and fellowship, let’s not forget to
talk about the ultimate gift we can ever receive, and that is our Lord
Jesus Christ—God Himself.



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



