http://ymi.today/2017/01/5-reasons-you-should-repent-again-and-again/

5 Reasons You Should Repent – Again and Again

Author: by Raphael Zhang

Photo By Ben White

What is repentance? Do Christians need to repent? When was the last
time you repented?

As believers, we know that Jesus calls people who have yet to believe
in Him (Matthew 4:17) and Christians to repent when they have fallen
away from Him (Revelation 2:5; 2:16; 2:21; 3:3; 3:19).

And yet, repentance seems like a rather unpleasant thing that we have
to coerce ourselves to do. It’s like taking bitter medicine when we
are sick. We don’t want to take it but force it down our throats
anyway, because we know it’s supposed to be good for us.

I used to think of repentance in this way, until I realized what
repentance really is. In a nutshell, it involves these three things:
Recognition of our sin, renunciation of our sin and returning to God.

The more I came to understand what repentance really is, the more I
realized that it is, in fact, a wonderful gift by God to us. Here are
some reasons why.



I used to feel unworthy of God’s forgiveness when I fell into sin. I’d
think, “I’m already a Christian and yet I’m still disappointing and
failing God in this way. How can I still expect Him to forgive me?”

Thankfully, God assured me by reminding me of this truth: “If we
confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins
and purify us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9).

Since then, I’ve made it a point to confess my sins before God no
matter how “unworthy” or “unclean” I might feel, knowing that He will
forgive me my sins and purify me, so that I will be righteous before
Him again.

Just as God reached out to us before we came to know Him, He is still
reaching out to us and calling us to return to Him today if we’ve
fallen in sin: “Return to Me, and I will return to you” (Zechariah
1:3, Malachi 3:7). God promises to restore us when we repent of our
sins (Jeremiah 15:19).



I find that when I have trouble repenting, it’s often because I have
pride issues in my life. Pride is spiritual blindness that causes us
to think our standards are better than God’s standards.

The opposite of pride is humility, and one definition of it, which I
really like, says, “Humility means agreeing with the truth.” Perhaps
that is why Paul says that repentance leads us to know the truth so
that we can come to our senses (2 Timothy 2:25-26). When I repent and
learn to agree with the truth of God’s standards of righteousness and
sin, I am growing in humility.

God values humility; He shows favor to those who are humble, but He
opposes and mocks those who are proud (Proverbs 3:34, James 4:6). So
let’s be quick to repent, so that we may grow in humility and receive
and enjoy God’s favor.



During the times when I was willfully disobeying God, I found it so
much harder to believe God’s truths. Instead, the voices of guilt,
doubt, fear and condemnation would ring a lot louder in my heart.
Thoughts like, “God doesn’t love you anymore,” “You’ve really blown it
this time. God won’t give you a second chance,” and “God has given up
on you now” would keep harassing me, giving me no peace.

But when I repented and returned to God, these deceptive whispers of
the enemy would start to fade and I’d be more able to perceive and
receive the truths of God again.

The Bible tells us, “Submit yourselves . . . to God. Resist the devil,
and he will flee from you” (James 4:7). In this verse, submission to
God means washing our hands and purifying our hearts from sin and
double-mindedness (James 4:8).

When we sin, we’re actually giving the devil permission to draw near
to us, for “[t]he one who does what is sinful is of the devil, because
the devil has been sinning from the beginning” (1 John 3:8). The enemy
is close to those who does what he does (John 8:44). And when he is
near us, he “comes only to steal and kill and destroy” (John 10:10).

When we submit to God by repenting, we’re proclaiming that we belong
to God and we can fight against the devil and his evil influences in
our lives.



I’ve found this to be true in my life. When I insisted on my own
sinful ways, the one who suffered the most was me. Although sin may
feel good, it ultimately hurts more than it seems to promise.

And when I wasn’t willing to confess my sins to God and others due to
pride and shame, I found myself continuing in my sins because the
devil had gained a foothold in my life to ensnare me in the darkness.
It’s only when I brought these sins into the light by confessing them
to people I trusted, that those sins started to lose their power to
further deceive and hurt me.

I’m thankful that God gives us confession and repentance as the means
by which we can receive His mercy. Because Jesus is our great high
priest who is always interceding for us before God (Hebrews 4:14;
7:25), we can “approach God’s throne of grace with confidence, so that
we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need”
(Hebrews 4:16).

The Bible gives us this promise: “Repent, then, and turn to God, so
that your sins may be wiped out, that times of refreshing may come
from the Lord” (Acts 3:19). If we do not repent, we will not be able
to receive help and relief from the torment of sin.



Sin will lead to spiritual death. God’s Word tells us plainly that
“the wages of sin is death” (Romans 6:23) and Jesus said, “unless you
repent, you too will all perish” (Luke 13:3). On the contrary,
repentance leads to life (Acts 11:18) and salvation (2 Corinthians
7:10).

Ultimately, when we repent, we are inviting Jesus to have fellowship
with us. After urging Christians to “be earnest and repent,” Jesus
said, “Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My
voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person, and
they with Me” (Revelation 3:19-20).

The immeasurable joy of having intimate fellowship with God is what
Jesus won for us through His death and resurrection, so that we “may
have life, and have it to the full” (John 10:10). It certainly beats
the deceptive and fleeting “joy” of any kind of sin by any measure!

Eternity doesn’t start when we go to heaven. It starts right now with
having fullness of life with God, and repentance allows us to have
that.

Would you repent and draw near to God today?





Raphael enjoys reading and writing, and experiences them as means of
connecting with the Word too beautiful for words. He believes there’s
no such thing as having too many books. Having been led by Jehovah-
Rapha to journey out of brokenness toward wholeness, he is passionate
about bringing God’s healing to others, so that the brokenhearted can
become wholehearted in loving God and people with all their heart,
soul, mind, and strength. He’s also crazy about cheeses, but his
greatest love is still Jesus.



