http://ymi.today/2016/03/why-im-fasting-for-the-first-time/

Why I’m Fasting for the First Time

Author: by Wendy Wong

“Do you love God more than you love sugar?” A small voice in my head
asked.

I wavered, and was struck by the fact that I actually hesitated.

We all have our coping mechanisms in times of stress and pressure. For
some, it could be a can of beer or a sweat-inducing workout after a
long day; for others, it could be watching back-to-back episodes of a
drama series or mindlessly surfing the Internet. For me, it has
been—and still is—sugar.

It was during one extremely stressful season in my first year of
university that sweet treats became my go-to therapy. I began to crave
anything with sugar, from jam-filled biscuits to chocolate-coated ice
cream. After a long day of classes, all I wanted to do was to sink my
teeth into a glazed pastry or fudge brownie, and zone out in sugary
bliss. Comfort eating became a means of distraction from the daily
grind, a way to destress—and an excuse to push my pile of assignments
aside. The last thing I wanted to do was to read the Bible or to pray.

Without knowing it, sugary foods had become my god. A god I
automatically turned to in time of need; a god in which I found
momentary comfort; a god that had replaced my one and only true God.
It was when I realized I couldn’t answer that one simple question of
whether I loved my heavenly Father more than sugar recently, that I
knew that I needed to fast.

I began fasting from sugary foods right there and then for a month.
During that period, I avoided all sugary treats, especially “trigger
foods” that I’m particularly tempted to binge eat. This includes ice-
cream with waffles (my favorite), cakes, cookies, pastries, chocolate
. . . and the list goes on.

But day by day, I’m learning what it means to take hold of Christ’s
enabling power, and it is only by his strength and grace that empowers
me to carry out my fast (Philippians 2:12-13). What this means is that
I avoid the dessert counter at buffets, politely decline proffered
sugary snacks, and excuse myself from the dinner table when the cake
comes out.



Fasting refers to the abstinence from food for a certain period of
time. In biblical times, repentance was often accompanied by fasting.
The Bible records different types of fasting, and the accounts of
people in both the Old and New Testaments who fasted, including Moses,
David, Paul, and Jesus (but not because He needed to repent).

I chose to fast because I need to repent for worshipping another god:
my sugary treats (Philippians 3:19). Fasting is an outward expression
of my inward repentance. It is a means of humbling myself, and of
consecrating myself before God. It isn’t merely acknowledging I have
sinned—as I have done many times before—but acting on it through a
period of abstinence.



Initially, I started fasting to demonstrate to God and to myself that
I truly wanted to seek Him above any sugary quick fix. Now, it has
become a time of learning what it means to truly rely on Him in my
time of need. I can no longer automatically turn to sweet treats,
which I know would ultimately leave me emotionally and spiritually
dissatisfied.

Make no mistake: in itself, eating is not a sin. But it can become a
sin when it becomes a distraction, an addiction, or an idol. Though
God gives us food for our nourishment and enjoyment, food can also
take His place when we desire it more than our giver and sustainer
Himself.

Over the past three weeks, I’ve found that fasting from sugary foods
has helped me shift my spiritual disposition away from my mindless
cravings, and towards Christ.



American theologian John Piper writes, “Fasting is the hungry
Christian handmaid of faith. Fasting is not a replacement for faith in
Jesus. It is a servant of faith in Jesus.

“Fasting is a way of saying with our stomach and our whole body how
much we need and want and trust Jesus. It is a way of saying that we
are not going to be enslaved by food as the source of our
satisfaction. We will use the renunciation of food from time to time
to express that Jesus is better than food.”

For me, fasting is a means to sharpen my desire and appetite for
feasting upon God’s ways and Word. It is a way to replace my excessive
snacking on sweets with true spiritual nourishment. It is a means of
crying out to God, “I want you God—more than the sugary treat in front
of me, more than the moment of temporary satisfaction felt, more than
the emotional craving fulfilled.”



If you’re struggling with a habitual sin, I encourage you to
prayerfully consider fasting. At the same time, be careful of your
motivations as you fast. The Bible tells us that our hearts are
deceitful above all things (Jeremiah 17:9), so if it is not properly
checked, fasting as a spiritual discipline can turn into a fleshly
exercise of pride.

Fasting isn’t a way to earn God’s favor, to show off your willpower,
nor to justify future sinning. Neither is it to punish
yourself—something I personally have to be conscious about. Instead,
fasting with a pure and sincere heart can be an earnest and humble
expression of repenting, and honoring and glorifying God.



Wendy is an aspiring writer, a radio producer, and a disciple of
Christ. She hopes that God will use what He’s given her, to bless and
glorify Him through her living and writing. Her perfect day includes
spending time with the Lord, a hike with her husband, and curling up
with a good novel.



