http://ymi.today/2016/12/why-i-have-hope-despite-a-terrible-2016/

Why I Have Hope (Despite a Terrible Year)

Author: by Contributor

Written by Rachel Moreland, USA

I recently came across an article that reported that Planet Earth, a
popular BBC nature and wildlife documentary, has racked up more
millennial viewers—myself included—than reality TV shows like The X
Factor.

Narrated by one of Britain’s favorite personalities, David
Attenborough, it’s not hard to see why viewers have chosen a show
about our planet over aspiring singers. There’s no other program this
winter that had me cheering on, as this one did when baby iguanas in
the Galapagos ran for their lives from a den of slithering snakes—the
neighbors in my block of flats probably thought I was rooting for my
favorite sports team! Little did they know that I was being swept up
by the intriguing complexity of the “circle of life.”

But this show offers more than just stunning footage of wild
landscapes and exotic creatures. I think its popularity can also be
attributed to something more intangible but just as powerful: hope.
Hope amid uncertainty, opposition, and danger.

As I think about the past 12 months, I can’t help but feel a bit
worried, upset, and confused. This year has been a particularly
difficult one for many around our globe. Ongoing conflict in the
Middle East. Persecution by ISIS and other extremist groups. A
political revolution in the United States. An uncertain future for the
UK in the wake of Brexit. Putin arming the borders of Western Europe.
Climate change and natural disasters. And these are just a few of this
year’s top headlines.

I think what our world needs now, more than ever before, perhaps, is a
fresh dose of hope. I think what our world needs now, more than ever
before, perhaps, is a fresh dose of hope. Hope in something stable,
something unfailing, and something promising.

As I read about the birth of Jesus in Luke 2 in the days leading up to
Christmas, I can’t help but think about Mary and Joseph. While I am no
theologian, I wonder if they worried about the world they were
bringing this little baby into—a dictatorship under King Herod, a
nation of anxious Jewish people, and a seemingly unfulfilled promise
of Israel’s redemption.

Nonetheless, Jesus came and it changed the course of history.

I don’t know where you find yourself this holiday season, but I
imagine you may have struggled this past year, as I have. There have
been many things I have been tempted to put my hope in—my work, my
government, my culture—but all have failed me. Our post-modern
humanist society would lie to us and say that our national identity,
our occupation, our relationship status, and our stuff are the things
that we can trust. All these give us security, safety, comfort, and
enjoyment.

But what we don’t realize along the way, until it’s too late, is that
these things cannot and never will be a firm foundation for us to
place the full weight of our lives on. When we thought that more
stuff, money, sex, and status symbols would buy us more security and
love, we were left lacking and found wanting—devoid of hope.

I would not pretend to have all of my theology worked out, but this I
know: the only thing that you and I can rely upon is Jesus. When
everything else has passed away, when you lose your successful job,
when your relationships break down, when your country is going in the
opposite direction of where you think it should go—when all of the
things that you thought were firm foundations have passed away, all
that remains is the only person that could ever offer complete peace.
His name is Jesus. And He offers hope, peace, and love to a world that
is hurting and that is broken.

What are you putting your hope in this Christmas?

