http://ymi.today/2017/07/5-lessons-from-a-family-feud/

5 Lessons from A Family Feud

Author: by Constance Goh

Photo from Yahoo

Family disputes are common. In fact, I see them happening in my own
family all too often, whether it is over minute or important matters.
But over the past few weeks, one particular family feud in Singapore
has captured the attention of many in my country—and perhaps around
the world too.

The conflict, which erupted over social media on June 14, concerns
allegations of abuse of power by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, made
by his two younger siblings over the fate of their late father’s house
at 38 Oxley Road.

Yesterday afternoon (July 3), PM Lee formally addressed this issue in
Parliament, where he defended the actions he took following the death
of his father, Singapore’s founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, in
March 2015, and allowed Members of Parliament to question him.

Like many Singaporeans, I have been following this saga closely. And
I’ve been both shocked and sad to see this happening in a family that
I deeply respect and hold in high regard.

Without getting into a debate over who is right or wrong, I can see
some personal lessons to be learned from this issue. What this dispute
has shown me is that all humans are prone to conflict—regardless of
how clever, powerful, or well-regarded we are.

This applies just as much to Christians. Though we all belong to the
family of God, we have our fair share of conflict too. When
challenged, our natural instinct is to fight back and vindicate
ourselves. But most of the time, such encounters don’t end well. In my
church, I have seen members leaving as a result; disputes can also
lead to a split in the church.

So how should Christians respond when we don’t see eye-to-eye with
each other? Here are five ways in which I believe we can respond to
conflict within the family of God.



God dislikes conflict. When we were at odds with God because of our
sin, He made the first move for us to be reconciled—and He paid a
hefty price for it, by sending His own Son Jesus to die on the cross
to redeem us.

In the same way, God doesn’t want us to be at odds with anyone in the
church. He wants us to be reconciled with others. “If it is possible,
as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone.” (Romans
12:18)

Will we make an effort to resolve our differences because it pleases
God—even if we don’t feel like it?



When we feel hurt by others, it is natural to lash back. But we have
to be careful not to allow our emotions to get the better of ourselves
so that we act on impulse. God calls us to exercise self-control,
which is one attribute of the fruit of the Spirit. Practising self-
control means taking charge of our thoughts and attitudes so that they
do not dictate our actions and lead us to behave in a way that
displeases God.

The next time we get into a conflict, will we react calmly (Proverbs
29:11)?



Philippians 2:3-4 tells us to “value others above yourselves”. It is a
challenging instruction because it means we have to put our pride and
our interests aside. But Jesus has shown us examples of humility which
we are called to imitate. While He was equal with God, He chose to
forsake that privilege by becoming a human, being wronged, and finally
dying for us in a humiliating manner. If Jesus cared merely about
himself, none of us would ever be reconciled with God.

When we humble ourselves before others, we can take heart that God is
pleased, for “God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble”
(James 4:6).

Even though we may look foolish to the world, are we willing to be
wronged for the sake of reconciliation?



Taking time to listen and empathize can seem extremely difficult to do
in the heat of the moment. But what this simply means is to be willing
to understand how the other party has been hurt.

Fools are described as those who “find no pleasure in understanding
but delight in airing their own opinions” (Proverbs 18:2). Instead, we
are called to listen before answering (Proverbs 18:13).

Will we put aside our prejudices and hurt to truly listen and
understand the other party?



Above all, as a family of God, we are commanded by the Lord to love
one another as we love ourselves (Mark 12:31). It is one of His two
greatest commandments.

When we show love to others in times of conflict, we are able to stand
united as a family of Christ and show the world that Jesus is a God of
love. And we can take heart that God is with us when we gather to
resolve the conflict, peaceably in love (Matthew 18:20).

Are others able to see Jesus through the way we respond to conflict?



The way to resolve a conflict is not by trying to win the fight or
prove that we are right. It’s by responding in love and showing Christ
in our response.

One statement that PM Lee made yesterday stood out: “At the end of the
day, we are brother and sister, and we are all our parents’ children.”

I couldn’t agree more. At the end of the day, we are all God’s
children, seeking to please the same Father.



Constance is an avid reader and a Milo addict. If she is not found
with a book, she is probably watching Korean dramas or jamming on her
guitar to some Coldplay tunes. She enjoys the company of children and
hopes to work among them in the future. As someone who believes that
hardship on this earth is nothing compared to the future glory in
heaven, she takes pride in being able to work hard for God.



