http://ymi.today/2017/03/why-wont-god-give-me-a-boyfriend/

Why Won’t God Give Me a Boyfriend?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra W., Malaysia

I have a confession to make: I turn 25 this year, and I have never
been in a relationship. It’s not just because I haven’t met the right
person; it’s also because no one has ever pursued me before.

While most girls were befriending guys in high school and college, I
was socially awkward. To me then, guys were different; they were
“aliens” whom I was too afraid to talk to.

Thankfully, I came around in my earlier 20s, and have since opened up
and gotten to know several quality friends. However, it still stings
that I’m late to the relationship party that all my peers seem to be a
part of.

Every time a friend or family member starts dating, I cry on the
inside and quickly become overcome with bitterness, self-hate, and
ultimately, anger towards God because I’m not in  a relationship like
everyone else.

What’s a bitter single girl to do?

One particular day, while I was upset over yet another friend becoming
“Facebook official”, I sat down and talked to God. Clenching my fists,
I muttered through gritted teeth: Why, God? Why can’t I find a
boyfriend? Why can’t I achieve a relationship like everyone else my
age? It’s bad enough that I don’t have many friends. Now you’re going
to let me look like a loser that no guy ever wanted to date?

It was during that bitter rant that God opened my eyes to three truths
that I realized I needed to deal with.



To me, life comprised a series of boxes that I needed to check off in
order to feel like I had lived it well. Do well in school? Check. Get
a good job? Check.

Get a relationship? Not checked.

By checking off boxes, I wanted to prove to everyone around me that I
had “arrived”, that I was finally an adult. See, I can snag myself a
boyfriend just like you! He thinks the world of me! Just look at my
arm candy!

However, this is not God’s design for marriage, and by extension, the
relationships that lead to it. In the Bible, husbands and wives are
called to sacrificial love and respect, to put the needs of the other
above their own (Ephesians 5:21-33).

While a dating relationship is not yet a marriage relationship, I was
certainly not looking to encourage and build up another person.
Instead of seeing a boyfriend as God would see him―a child of the
King, made in His image (Genesis 1:27), I simply wanted a boyfriend to
validate my own worth. All in all, I was being selfish.

I am now learning to rest in the fact that God sees me. When time and
again I long for someone to notice me, I remind myself that God does
not just see me for who I am right now―He sees my future potential and
will finish the good work He began in me (Philippians 1:6). If
marriage is in God’s plan for me, at the right time He will open the
eyes of the right guy to “see” me too.



Doubting God’s goodness was the root of the very first sin recorded in
the Bible. When Satan asked Eve, “Did God really say . . . ?” a seed
of doubt was planted, and Eve believed that God was withholding
something good from her. He wasn’t―but she fell for it anyway.

I needed to be careful that I wasn’t swinging from the statement, “God
is good” to the question, “Is God good?” One change, big difference.
Although my limited experience had caused me to doubt, it does not
change the fact that God is sovereign and that His plans for my life
are infinitely better than my own (Romans 8:28).

It can be hard to believe that God’s plans for my love life are good
when no prospects lie on the horizon and when other girls seemingly
have it easier. But when I doubt what the future holds, I meditate
instead on how intimately God knows me, loves me, and holds me in His
arms.



When God gave Adam the task of naming all the animals, He realized
that none of them were suitable partners for Adam. So God took a rib
out of Adam, fashioned a woman from it, and brought her to his side as
a human partner (Genesis 2:22).

Though I have yet to find a suitable life partner, God has given me an
extended family―His people. By serving and interacting with fellow
believers, I get to give and experience relationship.

When I wallow in self-pity, God’s family invites me into their lives,
to worship Him, and live out the Gospel together. When I invest my
time in the lives of other people, I don’t spend as much time dwelling
on my singleness.

Investing in other relationships helps me even when the lights go out
and I’m alone in my room. That’s when the timely words of fellow
brothers and sisters come to mind and build me up in the midst of my
disappointments. Truly, no man is an island!



Do I still mope about my singleness? Sure, the temptation to doubt is
strong. However, trusting God is a choice that I can make daily, and I
rest in the knowledge that God has great plans for my life, with or
without a boyfriend.

