http://ymi.today/2015/06/an-unlikely-friendship/

An Unlikely Friendship

Author: by Contributor

Written by Christine E., USAAt the beginning of the year, I made a
resolution to make a new friend at church. There were not many young
people at church, and I quickly picked a likely prospect. She was
about my age, still in school, and working part-time. I figured we had
enough in common to keep us going.

But somehow, things just did not work out. We never “clicked”. To this
day, we would stop for a routine Sunday morning greeting, but rarely
anything more.

It was somewhat disheartening. I had made the resolution as part of my
attempt to see church as family. Growing up, I received most of my
spiritual (and physical) nourishment from my immediate family and
family friends. Though we went to church every Sunday, I did not
really need it; all my needs were already being met elsewhere. Or so I
thought.

Sometime last year, a friend questioned how I could care so little for
the body of Christ. That led me to pick out my “prospective friend” as
part of my attempt to become more involved in church. What I did not
realize then was that I was still looking for someone like me. Church
is a very rich place, with people from different walks of life,
different stages in life, with very different struggles, but all
redeemed by Christ (Galatians 3:26-29). Though I ignored diversity at
the time, God, by His grace, had other plans.

In February, I started attending a women’s Bible study on Tuesday
mornings. The women there were mostly retirees, whereas I was a
jobless college graduate. We had little in common and, to be honest, I
did not expect to gain much from the group. However, as time went by,
I got to know the others a little better.

One woman in particular took a liking to me, and I to her. She had
recently re-dedicated her life to Christ, but was being continually
battered by trial after trial. Her failing health, the precarious
health of her family members, her stormy relationships—every week she
seemed to bring a new prayer request to the table. Every one of them
was serious, yet so few of them were answered.

Yet, week after week she came back, and week after week she praised
the Lord for all that He had done in her life. She clung to the truth
that God is good more fiercely than anyone I have ever met.

Somehow, the two of us became friends. I still cannot explain how it
happened. We differ so greatly in age, personality, experience, and
outlook on life. But how I look forward to seeing her each Sunday, to
hear the good that God has done and to share the weight of her trials
as much as I can! But how I look forward to seeing her each Sunday, to
hear the good that God has done and to share the weight of her trials
as much as I can! And she always makes a special effort to greet and
hug me. She told me once that I have the most beautiful smile and it
brightened her day to see it every time.

Church is family. You cannot pick who shows up each Sunday. And life
would be far less beautiful if you could. When I prayed at the
beginning of the year that God would help me build a friendship at
church, I had my own expectations. But out of His goodness, He gave me
a relationship much richer than I could have imagined.

Perhaps you are in the same position. What unexpected relationship
might God be growing in your life?

