http://ymi.today/2015/10/should-christians-strive-for-excellence-at-
work/

Should Christians Strive For Excellence At Work?

Author: by YMI

By Samantha Png, Singapore

I enjoy work—both work itself and the act of working in a team towards
a common goal and then enjoying the fruit of our labor together. In
fact, depending on who you ask, I may even be a little too passionate
(or obsessed) about getting the job done, and done well.

Initially, I wasn’t sure where this drive towards excellence stemmed
from, because I was never pressured nor expected to excel in any area
of my life. Neither did my parents expect or encourage me to have sky-
high expectations of myself—I was never a star pupil in school, unlike
my over-achieving sibling.

But recently, I’ve come to realize how it all started. I didn’t
experience some traumatic event or crushing defeat. I did, however,
grow in my faith and knowledge of God and His attributes, namely, His
holiness, infinite wisdom, and most importantly, steadfastness.

In this day and age where standards waver according to one’s whims and
fancies and the gauge of excellence sways accordingly, the only
standard that matters and stays constant is God’s. Perhaps that was
what sparked the need to take a long, hard look at my current
relationship with Him, and how I can draw strength and inspiration
from the steadfastness of God.

Was I just drifting through life, moving with the wind and currents?
Had I given my best in everything I had done? Was I excelling in the
workplace? I think many would debate about this, but my view is that
there should be excellence in a believer’s life, because we serve an
excellent creator.

So how would this look like? I would like to suggest that excellence
is achieved when we glorify God in our work. Laboring for God’s glory
means that whatever we do, we do it to please God (Colossians 3:17).
This motivation should set us apart from others in this materialistic
and self-centered world, where instead of seeking self-glorification,
we seek to glorify God; instead of working for man’s praise, we boast
in the name of the Lord. In fact, God Himself promises us that if we
seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these will be
given to us as well. (Matthew 6:33)

When we follow God’s will by displaying a positive attitude and
putting our best foot forward in all our efforts, the fruit of our
obedience may come in the form of outstanding productivity, good
relationships with our colleagues, or even promotion and increased
salary.

I am still a work-in-progress, trying to let God into every area of my
life—especially at the workplace—and trying to be consistent in my
actions and motivations.

How about you? What are you chasing? And who are you working for?

