http://ymi.today/2017/04/how-a-preacher-i-didnt-like-convicted-me/

How A Preacher I Didn’t like Convicted me

Author: by Ian Tan

“But if not for the grace of God, I am finished!” said the speaker at
my church one Sunday.

I couldn’t agree more.

I knew the speaker (let’s name him Dan) on a personal level; he was
someone who had a rather abrasive personality. Having had a few run-
ins with him in the past, I didn’t always look up to him as a
Christian example. When he uttered those words at the pulpit, memories
of all my past unpleasant encounters with him resurfaced. I couldn’t
help but think how right he was—about himself.

So I began to listen carefully to every word he preached—and found
myself going “yup, that’s you!” at various points of his sermon. It
seemed like a message he was preaching to himself, and I even wondered
how much he would change after his message.

In my church, it is a practice to share with the person seated beside
us our reflection on the message and to spend time praying for one
another. When it came to sharing time that Sunday, a sister-in-Christ
shared with me how Dan’s message resonated with her. She had recounted
all the times in her life when God had saved her from the messes she
made, and realised how, if it hadn’t been for the grace of God, she
would indeed be finished.

Listening to her, I felt overwhelmed by guilt. Instead of focusing and
reflecting on what the Bible had to teach me that Sunday morning, I
had allowed my judgmental feelings towards Dan to get in the way. As I
reflected on this incident, I felt the Lord leading me to remember
three things:

There were many times when I, too, had been ensnared by sin and God
had been gracious to me. I’ve lost count of the number of times I had
sought the Lord’s forgiveness for my sin, only to eventually plunge
right back into a sin-filled life.

Despite the many times I lived as though I had given up on Him, God
never gave up on me. Who was I, then, to assume that God could not
have also worked in Dan’s life? At least he was honest about his
struggles. We are all in need of God’s grace.

As it is written: “There is no one righteous, not even one; (Romans
3:10)



I was so focused on Dan’s faults and shortcomings that I failed to
allow God’s Word to examine my own life and to change my heart that
morning. Focusing on how others ought to behave or change without
first considering what I need to do with my own sin-filled life is, as
the Scriptures describe, hypocrisy.

I have come to acknowledge that despite being saved, all of us are
still very much work-in-progress.

You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you
will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye. (Matthew
7:5)



Over the recent Easter weekend, I was reminded of the disastrous state
my life would have been in if not for Jesus. Jesus’s death and
resurrection was God’s ultimate display of both His grace and mercy
for mankind.

Remembering that truth helps me to firstly recognize my deep need for
a Savior. Being a recipient of God’s grace and mercy should then lead
me to extend it to another—like Dan.

For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not
from yourselves, it is the gift of God—not by works, so that no one
can boast. (Ephesians 2:8-9)



Among the many things I may disagree with Dan over, I do agree with
him that if not for the grace of God in my life, I would be finished.



Ian is a proponent of Steve Jobs’ fashion style — black t-shirt and
jeans are all you need in your closet. While you would usually find
him talking to people, he’s actually an introvert and his favorite
colour is green. Staying behind his camera capturing the beauty of
God’s creation is where he’s most comfortable. If push comes to shove,
he would rather jump out of a plane than sit on a roller coaster. But
when it comes to potato chips, you can always find a supporter in him.
Anytime, anyplace.



