http://ymi.today/2015/10/when-money-is-never-enough/

When Money is Never Enough

Author: by Contributor

Written By Edna Ho, Malaysia

After completing my Master’s degree in Kuala Lumpur, I decided to stay
and work in the Malaysian capital instead of returning to my hometown
in East Malaysia. There, I took on two jobs. On weekdays, I worked as
a full-time secretary at a real estate firm, and on Saturdays, as an
English teacher at a language center. Teaching has always been my
passion, and I find great satisfaction in teaching English to kids.

Because I was taking on two jobs, I was earning good money—more than
what an average fresh graduate earned. In fact, the job that paid me
well was the teaching one on Saturdays.

One day, however, my church leader asked me to resign from the weekend
job so that I could spend more quality time with people under my care.
I am currently the life group leader of a group of undergraduates from
my university.

I immediately objected. I tried to justify why I needed the job, and
said things like, “If I quit, are you going to feed me?” and “It isn’t
good for the kids to keep changing teachers.

Yet, deep down, I knew the real reason why I didn’t want to let go of
the job: I simply didn’t want to give up the extra income. I thought
and prayed about it, but I still couldn’t surrender the matter fully
to God.

A few days later, as I was serving as a backup singer, we started to
sing “Christ is Enough”. To be honest, I had not reflected on the
lyrics of the song for a long time because I had heard it so many
times. But that day, God used the song to speak to me.

As I sang the chorus the second time, the lyrics, which spoke about
how Christ Himself was all that we need, struck me hard. Tears began
to run down my cheeks. God was reminding me that He was enough for me.
Money would never be enough, regardless of how much I had. God was
reminding me that He was enough for me. Money would never be enough,
regardless of how much I had. I could find everything I needed in Him.
At that very moment, I was overwhelmed by gratitude. That day, I went
home thinking to myself that if I really had to, I would resign.

As of now, I am still holding onto two jobs. But God has brought me to
a point where I’m willing to give up the opportunity of earning more
money and to sacrifice my wants, in order to have more time for God’s
kingdom if He calls me to.

