http://ymi.today/2017/11/discouragement-the-devils-most-effective-
weapon/

Discouragement: The Devil’s Most Effective Weapon

Author: by Contributor

Written By Grace Chan, Malaysia, originally in Traditional Chinese

I once heard a story of an old devil who was planning to retire. He
put up for auction all the weapons which he had accumulated over the
years. They ranged from envy to laziness to gossip.

One of these weapons was worn from frequent use; it was the most
expensive of the lot. When a junior devil asked about the weapon, the
old devil proudly introduced it: discouragement. “Many people have
been able to resist attacks from my other weapons, but as soon as I
deployed ‘discouragement’, they would fall into the trap, and it would
be easy to control them,” he explained.

The old devil was right. At the lowest point in my life, I was trapped
in feelings of discouragement. I lost all hope and joy; I was so
disappointed with myself and my work and felt like a good-for-nothing.
Whenever someone assigned me a new task, I was so afraid to mess
things up. I struggled to interact with others, constantly
overthinking everything I said and did, and feeling stifled by the
internal conflict I was facing. I thought I would lose my job and my
relationships.

When night fell, I would either cry myself to sleep or mindlessly
browse my social media feeds on my phone until I fell asleep. Because
the former was too painful, I usually chose the latter as temporary
reprieve. But on the following day, I would beat myself up for wasting
time.

Also, I didn’t want to face a new day and struggled to get up every
morning—often lying in bed until the last minute before rushing out to
work. I couldn’t change myself no matter what I did. How could I serve
God in this state? I often reasoned. For a long time, I felt aimless
and lethargic about life.

Looking back, I believe that there were two root causes of my
discouragement:



I often compared myself with other people and wondered why they could
overcome difficult and painful seasons and even grow spiritually. I,
on the other hand, seemed to be stuck in my problems. That made me
feel useless and worthless.

It was only when my pastor shared with me that everybody was made
unique, and there was no basis for comparison, that my perspective
changed. Many times, we don’t see the full picture: each one of us has
our own weaknesses, and we all need God’s help. As the apostle Paul
tells us in Romans 12:3-8, we have different gifts and can play
different roles in God’s work. Many times, we don’t see the full
picture: each one of us has our own weaknesses, and we all need God’s
help. As the apostle Paul tells us in Romans 12:3-8, we have different
gifts and can play different roles in God’s work. That’s when I
realized I had a tendency to focus on the strengths of others but my
own weaknesses.



I expect a lot of myself and tend to be fixated on the nitty-gritty.
However, I soon realized that the unreasonably high standards I had
set for myself had come about because of my pride–not because God
required them.

As I think back on some of the things that have happened, I’ve
realized that I get easily frustrated and struggle to accept it
whenever my pride takes a hit, such as when I’m treated unjustly or
misunderstood, or when I don’t perform up to scratch or make mistakes.

Proverbs 17:3 says, “The crucible for silver and the furnace for gold,
but the Lord tests the heart.” God used this verse to teach me that
through the disappointments I faced, He was molding me and teaching me
to put down my pride and need for perfection.

He also helped me change in these three areas:



During that period of discouragement, I became reticent and withdrawn,
and was reluctant to tell others about how I was feeling. I pretended
everything was okay and kept myself busy by helping others.

But suppressing my feelings didn’t help, as my negative emotions
showed up in the words I said. It took church elders and friends to
help me open up about my struggles and needs, and to acknowledge that
I was on the verge of a breakdown. They also interceded on my behalf.
Through them, I began to see the truth of Ecclesiastes 4:10, “If
either of them falls down, one can help the other up. But pity anyone
who falls and has no one to help them up.”



Interestingly, I also learned that the way to not get overwhelmed by
our own circumstances is to instead, focus on the needs of others,
just like what Isaiah 58:10 says, “and if you spend yourselves in
behalf of the hungry and satisfy the needs of the oppressed, then your
light will rise in the darkness, and your night will become like the
noonday.”

When I was discouraged and wanted to distance myself from everyone and
hide, God surrounded me with fellow believers, some of whom were
sisters that I had ministered to in the past. Through them, God gave
me the opportunity to look past my own problems and show them love and
concern, just as I had in the past. The reason why I could love them
was because God, the source of love, enabled me to.



In a book I’ve read called, Kisses From Katie, author Katie Davis
shares her experiences about moving from her home in USA to Uganda,
where she became the mother to 13 adopted children. In the beginning,
she felt very helpless and frustrated when she saw all the needs
around her. But when she turned to God and cried out to Him, God gave
her the resources to help the children.

Her story reminded me that we cannot rely on ourselves because many
things are beyond our control. At the same time, however, we should
not allow ourselves to despair. Her story reminded me that we cannot
rely on ourselves because many things are beyond our control. At the
same time, however, we should not allow ourselves to despair. Instead,
we should surrender our pains and problems to God through prayer.

When we hand the authority and control of our situation back to the
all-powerful God, He will grant us faith to wait patiently for His
answers in our lives.



If you were to ask me today if I am completely free from negative
emotions and thoughts, my answer is found in this verse: “LORD, You
alone are my portion and my cup; You make my lot secure.” (Psalm
16:5).

I have come to understand that I am in God’s hand and everything is
from Him. Whenever I am afraid of losing something or lack the courage
to face challenges, I know that God will strengthen me. And I firmly
believe that God will not give me more than I can bear, and He would
always provide a way out (1 Cor 10:13).

So let me return to the story I started with. The junior devil went on
to ask the old devil what kind of person was not afraid of
discouragement. The old devil replied, “Those with a grateful heart.”
Gratefulness helps us see what we have and not focus on what we don’t
have. It causes us to remember God’s leading and work in our lives,
and gives us confidence that He will continue to guide us in our path
ahead.

So, no matter the discouragement we have faced and will face, let’s
pray that God will enable us to praise Him in thanksgiving. It is my
prayer that we all will learn to be grateful people.

