http://ymi.today/2016/02/why-we-spent-15-years-in-the-friend-zone/

Why We Spent 15 Years in the “Friend Zone”

Author: by Amy Ji

Yes, that’s the number of years my husband, Jonathan, and I knew each
other before we got married. I guess you could consider us living
examples of the saying, “The best relationships start off as
friendships”.

If you’re thinking it happened because I’m some crazy purist or that I
adhered closely to the most popular boy-girl relationship (BGR) book
of my era, Joshua Harris’ “I Kissed Dating Goodbye”—which encourages
couples to get into relationships only if there is the intention of
marriage—I’m afraid you’d be disappointed. In reality, Jonathan was my
fifth serious boyfriend (not even counting those whom I went on casual
dates with every now and then.)

However, I was only his second serious girlfriend, and by the time he
asked me to consider dating him, he was quite certain I was the one he
would marry. His confidence came largely from the fact that he had
known me for a considerable amount of time, during which we had our
fair share of cold wars, overnight phone conversations, and shoeboxes
full of encouragement cards. Naturally, I learned this only after we
got married.

But allow me to start at the beginning.

Jonathan and I first met in youth group after I graduated from Sunday
school. At the age of 15, we became good friends and co-leaders of a
cell group. It was over the next two years that we developed our
individual convictions about BGR. His was to abstain from a
relationship until after he finished serving his National Service,
while mine was to get into one as soon as possible. His was to abstain
from a relationship until after he finished serving his National
Service, while mine was to get into one as soon as possible.

At the time, my dating philosophy was simple: date until you meet “the
one”. And so I did. One failed relationship led to another and this
went on for some years, until I finally started to doubt my take on
BGR and whether I’d ever be married.

Jonathan, on the other hand, continued to commit to waiting—right
through college and his tough years as a naval diver. When he finally
started to date, he did so with much caution and commitment, with
every intention to marry his then-girlfriend.

Much later, he would tell other young people that he had decided to
wait until he was 21 before he started dating because he had wanted to
dedicate the best years of his youth to God and to the ministry God
had placed him in. His philosophy was shaped by Ecclesiastes 12:1,
which says, “Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before
the days of trouble come and the years approach when you will say, ‘I
find no pleasure in them’.”

He had many other practical reasons as well—he believed that it would
be hard to keep a relationship going while he was in the Navy, and
that he would not be financially able to get married at that time. But
his main reason for staying single was to focus on serving the Lord.

When close friends found out we were finally getting married, they
teased me for banishing him to the “friend zone” for a long 15 years.
In fact, I would reply, it was the other way round! My husband had
kept me in this zone for 15 years because he had wanted to spend his
younger days serving wholeheartedly in the youth ministry. And I’m
glad that he had.

Those 15 years gave us time to know each other’s quirks, to learn the
message behind every frown or raised eyebrow, and to understand what
made each other tick. And because we shared so many mutual friends,
we’ve had the joy of having many willing wedding helpers and more
recently, babysitters! That long period of being just friends made
life after marriage so much better.

Don’t get me wrong, we still have our differences to work through. But
to have someone who knows exactly how you feel through just one
glance, I believe could only have come out of a tried and tested
foundation—friendship.



Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



