http://ymi.today/2017/01/why-i-struggled-to-be-real-in-church/

Why I Struggled To be Real in Church

Author: by Contributor

Written By Ana Chavarria, USA

Church is supposed to be the place we feel secure and accepted. But
the reality is often different. Many of us struggle to be ourselves in
the church because we fear being judged.

As a pastor’s kid, I went through really tough times because people
expected perfection from me. And sometimes, this led to unhelpful and
unkind comments being made.

“That’s not very ‘Christian’.” “He/she doesn’t behave like a pastor’s
kid.” “He/she doesn’t serve in the church.” “He/she is always playing
video games.” “She is always hanging out with that boy!”

On my own part, I thought that if I was not perfect enough, people
would think that my dad was not a good pastor.

Being the eldest of three girls, I constantly felt the pressure to do
things right or the godly way. I was taught that as the firstborn, I
should set an example for my siblings—even my sisters expected me to
only do “the right things”. But as they grew up, I could see them
struggling with the same pressures I faced.

Many eyes were watching and closely following everything I did or
said. I had to be extremely careful to not say anything that could be
misunderstood or taken the wrong way. There were times that I would
express my opinion on something and then someone would jump in and say
something like, “Oh, I can’t believe the pastor’s daughter just said
that!” It bothered me because I knew that if one of my friends had
said the same thing, nobody would have thought it was weird.

So for many years, I hid my true self when I was in church. Instead of
being the loud and spontaneous self I was, I was really quiet and
never expressed my opinion in public. Everything I did was to please
the people. There were times where I didn’t agree with some people on
what they were doing or how they were managing things, but I stayed
silent because I didn’t want them to think I was being disrespectful.

It was painful and exhausting to live that way, and I was constantly
wrestling with these thoughts:  “What would they think if I say this
or that?” “What would people say if they find out that I listen to
secular music?” “Would they stumble in their faith if I’m not in
church this Sunday?”

One night, I was reading my Bible and came across this verse: “For am
I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please
man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of
Christ.” (Galatians 1:10)

It immediately struck me that the way I was behaving was simply to
please people and not God, even though He should be the only One I
ought to focus on serving and pleasing. Although I knew that all
along, that night, that verse reminded me that I was not doing
that. When I came to this realization, I felt a huge burden lifted off
my shoulders.

From then on, I started to live my life with liberty, knowing that God
and His Word makes me free. I started to live and enjoy life to the
fullest and for God’s glory. I started reading my Bible more—not to
impress the people, but because I knew it pleased God and because I
needed it. I also “let go” of myself, and became more joyful and
unafraid to joke with people. I began to open my heart and speak my
mind to others.

Of course, this evoked different reactions. While some felt I was
being too unrestrained, others started opening up to me because they
saw the real me—someone who fails but is always ready to get up again,
someone who is not perfect but is constantly pursuing the perfect One.
While some felt I was being too unrestrained, others started opening
up to me because they saw the real me—someone who fails but is always
ready to get up again, someone who is not perfect but is constantly
pursuing the perfect One. I stopped caring about what people said
about me or not.

Please do not misunderstand me. I am not saying that I started to do
whatever I wanted with no fear of anything. I just started to be
myself with others in the church.

If you’re going through the same thing today, may I encourage you go
back to seeking God wholeheartedly? After all, if you keep living for
the people, you will never feel satisfied. You will never totally
please them. Instead of living in bondage to that, live for Him.

