http://ymi.today/2016/10/when-i-realized-working-hard-isnt-everything/

When I Realized Working Hard Isn’t Everything

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

A colleague of mine recently retired after working for the same
organization for 35 years. He was one of those who worked 24/7 and
gave his heart and soul to the job at hand.

Often, we meet people who can’t seem to care less about the job—but he
wasn’t one of those. He was passionate, competitive, always on top of
things, and involved in everything happening in the office.

We threw him a farewell party and gave him a gift and a card. By the
next day, a new officer had taken over his position and his email was
removed from the staff mailing list.

To be honest, I was on track to become one such worker not too long
ago. I gave everything to my job, dreamed about my job at night, and
talked about nothing but my job. I was so fixated on my job that I
stopped wishing or aiming for a life outside of it.

I stopped engaging with friends because I was always working or
replying to emails. I couldn’t keep a relationship going because I was
always the last person in the office to leave for home or always on my
phone, anxiously waiting for that message I had to respond to. I got
upset if I was told that other things mattered in life and that I had
to learn to live a little.

Then one day, I fell ill and had to be off work for a while. Only one
colleague sent me a text message to ask me how I was doing. I had no
one to talk to, no one to help me, and because I had practically
ignored God, I felt I couldn’t go to Him either. I realized there and
then that there was more to life, and that I had not been created to
work in pursuit of material gain; I was created to fellowship (1
Corinthians 1:9) and glorify God (Isaiah 43:7).

After that revelation, I arranged a meet up with my retired friend. He
shared that he had no idea what to do after retirement. He was
divorced because of the job, and had long given up all his hobbies in
favor of work and ambition. All his life, he had been chasing after
deadlines and promotions, and had often felt that everything at work
would fall apart if he was not there to hold it all together.

But at the point of his retirement, he realized that all his labor
amounted to nothing. He was easily replaced at his former job. In
pursuit of his career, he had lost focus of everything else. He lost
his friends, his family, and the ability to “function” outside of the
office.

He shared that his mistake was fixing his eyes on the present and
immediate future. Because he was so fixated on achieving excellence at
work, he had failed to look beyond the present, and to realize that
there would be a day he had to leave that job.

It was only on hindsight that he realized investing in family,
community, and faith was more important than his title. Making an
impact on the lives of others around him, knowing his neighbors,
serving God, reaching out to those who were lost, would have been far
greater achievements than a paycheck at the end of the month.

I was deeply impacted by his sharing and it motivated me to reflect on
my own life. Reading through Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, I learned that
for everything, there is a right time (Eccl. 3); work cannot take up
my entire life. And unless God blesses the work, it will simply be
futile and frustrating no matter how hard I labor (Psalm 127). From
personal experience, I’ve also realized that just as God gave me the
job, He is more than capable of taking it away or giving me another
one in its place.

That’s not saying that we don’t need to work hard—the Bible does call
us to work diligently (Proverbs 6:6-11)—but my goal must be to exalt
God above all else. In all my endeavors, I pray that He gives me the
grace to “seek first His kingdom and His righteousness”, and to trust
that all the things I need will be given to me as well (Matthew 6:33).

My security lies not in where I am and what I do, but whom I am with.
Life is not about knowing all the pit stops or even the destination;
it is about trusting in the One who has our life in the palm of His
hands. When we truly learn to trust God and let Him have His way in
our lives, we will stop fixating on the little things, and on the here
and now. Instead, we will learn to look at the bigger picture and
realize our lives are not our own—but God’s. We need to live it
according to His way.

These days, I choose to ask God to use me for His glory, to let me be
His hands and feet These days, I choose to ask God to use me for His
glory, to let me be His hands and feet (1 Corinthians 12:12-31) in
whichever way that pleases Him. I try to look at the big picture and
not focus on what my flesh or the world tell me is important.

This has meant setting a particular time to leave work every day—as
far as possible, I try not to stay in the office past 7pm. There are
occasions that I do need to stay late, but I make sure it’s never the
norm. I’ve also started saying yes to friends, writing, volunteering
for causes close to my heart and serving God at Church. I also
promised God that I wouldn’t work or check my emails on Sunday.

Making these changes took time but I’m determined not to make my job a
god or an idol. I am made for the Lord’s pleasure. He is God, and I am
His vessel.

