http://ymi.today/2017/09/learning-to-face-death-from-nabeel-qureshi/

Learning to Face Death from Nabeel Qureshi

Author: by Joanna Hor

Photo by Nabeel Qureshi

“It’s a little unsettling to watch the vlog of someone who knows he’s
about to die,” I remember telling my mother after watching what would
be Nabeel Qureshi’s second last video blog on YouTube just last week.

In it, the Pakistani-American Muslim-turned-Christian apologist spoke
about his final stages of life and how he was receiving palliative
care.

Still, both of us were shocked by how quickly the 34-year-old’s
passing came. The popular itinerant speaker with Ravi Zacharias
International Ministries (RZIM) died on Saturday, 16 September, after
a year-long battle with stomach cancer. He leaves behind his wife,
Michelle, and two-year-old daughter, Aya.

As tributes poured in for Nabeel over the weekend, I found myself
saddened by his death and wondering why God took him at such a young
age, when he was still so active, effective, and passionate in
ministry.

I first heard about Nabeel two years ago when a friend told me about
his book, Answering Jihad: A Better Way Forward. Reading his book, I
was struck by how thoughtfully and objectively he had presented the
facts about Islam and Christianity.

As I started reading up more about him and watching his videos, I was
moved by Nabeel’s deep conviction and commitment to the gospel despite
what it cost him, and heartened that God had raised such a brilliant
and articulate person to reach the masses—in particular the Muslim
community—for Him. Months later, I saw the heartbreaking news on
Nabeel’s Facebook page: he had advanced stomach cancer, and the
prognosis was grim.

As I’ve been following his progress intermittently since then, his
death, though imminent and expected, still feels sudden and surreal.
But the legacy that he has left behind—and the lives he has impacted
during his short 34 years on earth—is unquestionable. Being just a
couple of years younger than him, I cannot help but think about my own
life and wonder about the kind of legacy I would leave behind one day.

One of the things about Nabeel that has deeply impacted me was how he
faced death. Unlike many others, he had the privilege of knowing and
preparing for his last days on earth. Even up till his last days, he
was still uploading video clips testifying about Jesus. Perhaps,
however, being able to stare at death in the face was a little
overwhelming—even for a man of great faith like him.

I remember watching his second last vlog and thinking that he sounded
almost discouraged and despondent; he seemed to be really struggling
to accept that God may not eventually heal him. This both surprised
and encouraged me I remember watching his second last vlog and
thinking that he sounded almost discouraged and despondent; he seemed
to be really struggling to accept that God may not eventually heal
him. This both surprised and encouraged me .

It surprised me, because I had assumed that he would be 100 percent
settled in his heart by this time, that his time was drawing to a
close. But it also encouraged me, because his complete honesty about
his desire to be healed showed how even great men of faith had their
“moments”. But, finally, it is what he said at the end of the
video—without any hint of bitterness in his voice—that I would always
remember: “But if it shouldn’t be Your will, Your sovereign will at
the end of the day, then I trust You, and I love You anyway . . .”

And I believe that that is exactly how Nabeel would want all those who
are grieving over his death to respond: to completely trust God and
love God regardless of the outcome. May Nabeel’s life and death
inspire us to devote our lives to Jesus for the rest of our days, so
that like the Apostle Paul and Nabeel, we can say with confidence at
the end of our lives, “I have fought the good fight, I have finished
the race, I have kept the faith.” (2 Tim 4:7)



Read author’s follow-up article: Crying Over Nabeel Qureshi



Joanna firmly believes that life is too short to make long-term plans.
Everyday, she is learning to cling less tightly to things here and
looks forward to the day she will meet her Lord. In the meantime, she
tries to live her life to the fullest by enjoying the relationships
God has given her, with hopes that those around her will come to know
Him too someday. While her likes and dislikes have changed over the
years, her love for potato (in any form) remains unchanged.



