http://ymi.today/2015/04/what-hope-is-there-six-feet-under/

What Hope is There Six Feet Under?

Author: by Amy Ji

To be honest, death really scares me, though not in the same way I get
scared by horror movies and flying cockroaches. It’s the uncertainty
of death I find absolutely frightening—there is no way of knowing when
the “unwanted visitor” is going to come a-knocking, and no way of
bolting the door.

The slew of media reports on the passing of Singapore’s founding
father Mr Lee Kuan Yew, splashed continuously on television screens
and newspapers last week, had me thinking about death over and over
again. While his death ought not to have come as a
surprise—considering his age and state of health—it was a shock to
realize that a formidable man like him had actually died.

As I reflected on the state funeral, which coincided with Palm Sunday,
Psalm 43:5 came to mind.

“Why, my soul, are you downcast?

Why so disturbed within me?

Put your hope in God,

for I will yet praise him,

my Savior and my God.”

While Singapore has indeed lost a great statesman, we have not lost
our source of hope. The Lord reminds us not to put our trust in men,
who have but breath in their nostrils. Instead, we are encouraged to
put our hope in God, who sent His son Jesus into the world to be our
Saviour. Jesus Christ has died and risen, overcoming death once and
for all. As Romans 6:8–10 says, “Now if we died with Christ, we
believe that we will also live with him. For we know that since Christ
was raised from the dead, he cannot die again; death no longer has
mastery over him. The death he died, he died to sin once for all; but
the life he lives, he lives to God.”

Physical death is a part of my journey of intimacy with Christ, taking
me a step closer to finally meeting Him face to face. Dr Chua How
Chuang, a missionary I loved and respected, had this to say (before he
went home to be with the Lord in March this year): “Indeed when a
loved one or we ourselves fall critically ill, our immediate reaction
is to pray for healing. I wonder if that reaction does not reflect an
unconscious love for the things of this world than of things above.”

Now that I know for certain that there is hope even in death, my
perspective on critical illness and earthly suffering is beginning to
change. Instead of shying away and being at a loss for words at a
person’s deathbed, I want to share this hope I have because of Jesus
Christ’s death on the cross for me.





Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



