https://ymi.today/2017/12/seeing-christmas-in-a-new-light/

Seeing Christmas in a New Light

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lee Soo Yi, Malaysia, originally in Simplified Chinese

My all-time favorite occasion is Christmas. Why, you may ask? Well,
which other occasion can match up to the myriad of activities?

There are heartwarming stage plays of the Christmas story at church,
fun Christmas parties and gatherings with friends and family, soulful
Christmas concerts, sumptuous Christmas dinners—the list goes on. I
absolutely love the celebrative mood of the season and harbor hopes of
having a white Christmas someday—imagine a snow capped backdrop with
warm festive lights and the chorus of carols in the background. Just
thinking about this makes me bubble over with joy!

But I eventually came to realize: I was so caught up with the
sentiment of Christmas that I never really gave much thought to how I
could make the time meaningful.

Having grown up in church, there were always plenty of opportunities
to serve during Christmas. Deep down, I knew all the right reasons for
why I should be involved but the constant thought of ‘Christmas is
meant to be happily enjoyed!’ was hard to brush aside. I was worried
that I would be too exhausted if I said ‘Yes’ and feared missing out
on all the fun Christmas parties with my friends. It didn’t matter if
it was sharing the Christmas story through stage plays or Christmas
choirs or the giving out of gospel tracts—they were all politely
turned down. I would tell myself: as long as I take time to remember
Jesus and what He has done for me, that’s all that matters, isn’t it?

I would come to discover that these were all silly excuses and that I
had my focus on the wrong person: myself instead of Christ. My desire
to enjoy the spirit of Christmas overpowered my desire to serve the
One who came to humbly serve us. My desire to enjoy the spirit of
Christmas overpowered my desire to serve the One who came to humbly
serve us.

It was in my third year of university that my perspective on Christmas
changed entirely. It was a special Christmas that has left the deepest
impression on my heart.

I remember joining the choir at church due to the persistent
encouragement of a friend. Interestingly enough, that was the year
when the church decided to organize a large scale Christmas stage play
(it was going to be held in a venue that could house thousands of
people!). Hence, every single choir member was mobilized to be a part
of this huge production and you had no excuse not to join (unless you
had a really special reason). At the start, things turned out exactly
as I expected: sheer exhaustion. I had to memorize a number of new
songs, attend countless practices and rehearsals at church and to top
it all off, deal with my jumpy nerves. It was clear to me that I was
doing all this for God, yet I still felt disgruntled that I was
seemingly ‘sacrificing’ so much time for this. Many a time, I
contemplated just throwing in the towel. This constant grumbling
continued in my heart, but sheer embarrassment prevented me from
giving up.

Before I knew it, the day of the performance arrived.

I vividly remember standing in the second row, being close enough to
the audience to clearly see the varied expressions on their faces. A
few impatient faces caught my eye—they belonged to a group of local
students who were sitting upfront and seemed indifferent towards all
that was going on around them (their phones took all the attention). I
was affected by their lack of interest and assumed that they would
just maintain this attitude from the start to the end of the program.

However, I was caught by surprise as I witnessed a gradual change in
their attitude as the program progressed: they were giving their
fullest attention during the choir performance! I almost fell off my
feet when they actually responded to the pastor’s call to prayer. I
noticed at this time too that many in the audience were responding in
their own ways—some were swaying along to the carols, some were crying
silently, some clapping along and others praying with their heads
bowed etc. It all moved me deeply.

I’m so thankful to God for this experience of serving Him at Christmas
that led me to discover anew the true meaning of Christmas. It’s not
just about my good feelings or nice fantasies of Christmas but a time
to truly contemplate the implications of my Savior coming to be among
us and the work that He came to do. He came to serve and not to be
served—our Servant King! Let’s walk in His footsteps and make
Christmas not just a time of festive celebration but more so –  the
best time for us to share the good news of the Christmas Story with
those who have yet to know Him, and as a time to love and serve others
around us.

“He has caused His wonders to be remembered; the Lord is gracious and
compassionate.” –Psalms 111:4

