http://ymi.today/2016/03/the-darkest-day-of-my-life/

The Darkest Day of My Life

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lisa Loh, Singapore

Darkness. We encounter it every day—when we sleep, when night falls,
or when we simply close our eyes. Yet, there’s something about
darkness that we dread. It speaks of the unknown, it engulfs us, and
it grips us with fear.

I had a recent experience of complete darkness, when I found myself
stuck in the middle of the largest tropical rainforest in Australia. I
had gone to Sydney for a cousin’s wedding and had extended my trip to
explore the country. Excited to venture beyond the city and stay
somewhere unusual, another cousin and I decided to book a room at a
cabin accommodation in the middle of Daintree rainforest in
Queensland.

The drive from the airport to our accommodation was supposed to take
three hours—at least, that’s what Google said. But my (misplaced)
confidence in my driving skills and in my cousin’s excellent
navigational skills, not to mention the GPS in the car, caused us to
dilly-dally over lunch at a stopover. By the time we entered the
rainforest, it was already 5pm.

At first, as I drove into the woods, I felt a sense of peace and
stillness come over me. It was wonderful to be disconnected from
technology and away from the noise of the city.

As we proceeded deeper, however, the calm and serenity started to give
way to something else. By 6pm, we noticed that the sunlight inside the
rainforest seemed to be fading. That was when it struck me that
darkness fell earlier and more quickly in a rainforest because of its
dense undergrowth.

Half an hour later, worry started creeping into my mind. “Why is this
three-hour drive taking longer than expected?” By this time, it was
almost dark, and all we had was the car’s headlights. Though they were
bright, they illuminated only a small circle of road just ahead of our
car. By 7pm, darkness had fallen completely. When I glanced at the
rearview mirror, I saw nothing: it was pitch black. Immediately, fear
took over, and my initial anxiety turned into a chaotic whirlpool of
distress. When I glanced at the rearview mirror, I saw nothing: it was
pitch black. Immediately, fear took over, and my initial anxiety
turned into a chaotic whirlpool of distress.

“Stop! We’ve reached! It’s on your right!” My cousin exclaimed
suddenly. But our relief and excitement turned to dismay when we
looked to the right and realized that there was nothing but trees.

There we were, in the middle of a narrow one-way road, completely lost
in the rainforest in the dead of the night. Voices started screaming
in my head and worst-case scenarios started playing out in my mind.
“What do we do now?” “If we turn back, I might not be able to locate
other places because it is so dark!” “If we stay in the woods, do we
leave our lights on to attract attention?” “But if the lights are on,
we might attract murderers or psychopaths and we could both be dead!”
“What about animals? What do we do now?”

To make things worse, my cousin and I could not make any calls because
we were too far in the middle of nowhere and our phones could not
connect. All we could do was to re-enter the address on our GPS and
hope it would lead us to the right place.

I started to make a U-turn—simultaneously praying that we would not
get into a head-on collision with an oncoming car—in a bid to locate
other motels we had passed earlier. Then, at that point, Psalm 34:7,
which my mother used to quote to me, came to mind. “The angel of the
Lord encamps around those who fear him, and he delivers them.” As
thoughts of death filled my mind, I cried out aloud in the car, “Jesus
please save me, I don’t know what to do!”

At that very moment, we suddenly noticed a small light heading towards
us. It came from a bicycle headlight. Unlike us, the cyclist looked
perfectly comfortable riding in the dark and immediately stopped when
he heard our cries for help. We were so relieved when he told us that
our accommodation was just five minutes away and gave us directions to
it. (We found out later on that he was a staff working at the flying-
fox attraction on the island.)

Finally reaching our accommodation safe and sound, I felt completely
exhausted—and utterly grateful. A new wave of emotions overwhelmed
me—not of fear, but of comfort and assurance that God had protected
and carried me all this while. I realized that He was the one who had
led the cyclist to us to guide us out of the mess. At the same time, I
felt ashamed that I had neither fully trusted nor believed that God
would come to my rescue, and repented.

That fateful episode in the dark was a stark reminder to me of how
dependent I am on God. Our God is indeed a good God whose love never
fails even when we do. Even when we don’t know how to trust Him, He
protects us like a shepherd protects his lost sheep. I would be
nowhere in life if not for His grace. Every single breath I take is a
testament of His grace, which I do not deserve.

Are you feeling lost and afraid? Do you doubt that God is listening to
your cries? Have you lost the assurance of being carried in His arms?
Let me encourage you to listen to the Shepherd’s gentle voice, and to
never lose sight of His grace and love for you.

