http://ymi.today/2015/08/friends-i-never-asked-for/

Friends I Never Asked For

Author: by Amy Ji

Growing up in church has its cons—everyone knows you, and everyone is
watching your every action and ready to report you to your parents who
serve as deacons, elders, or Sunday school teachers. So if there were
just one good thing about growing up in church, it would be the gift
of lifelong friendships.

There could not be any group of friends more different than the five
of us. One is sporty, another looks sporty but hates exercise, one
loves craft, another likes chemical engineering, and one is interested
in fashion and even has a Masters degree in it.

We do have one thing in common, though: we are all born in the same
year. And so, we were all in the same play group as toddlers, where,
according to our mums, we fought over toys and even bit each other on
some occasions. In primary school and secondary school, we had our
fair share of boy craziness, cold wars, and pajama parties. Later,
during our rebellious teenage years, we took turns to absent ourselves
from youth group meetings.

Older folks in church often remark how wonderful it is that we have
each other. But it didn’t always feel that way. In the earlier years,
we didn’t have much of a choice, because we were put into the same
group simply because we were peers. As the years passed, however, we
grew closer to one another. Encouragement cards turned into phone
calls and later into coffee sessions. Now, we can easily spend hours
chatting over tea without realizing how much time has gone by.

Looking back, I am filled with gratitude that I have these friends to
grow old together with. I am amazed by how the Lord has preserved and
grown our friendship—from childhood quarrels to prayerful intercession
sessions—and growing our size, from the five of us to include husbands
and children.

Through these friends, I see 1 Corinthians 12 being lived out: the
body is not made up of one part but of many and the eye can never say
to the hand, “I don’t need you”, for we are all members of the same
body. Through these friends, I see 1 Corinthians 12 being lived out:
the body is not made up of one part but of many and the eye can never
say to the hand, “I don’t need you”, for we are all members of the
same body. Three of us serve in different capacities in the worship
ministry and youth ministry, while another designs clothing for people
with disabilities; one of us seeks to raise not one or two, but three
godly offspring. I can only stand in awe of God’s work as I look at
where we are all at today.

I now realize that the true foundation of this friendship and the
common bond we share is Christ, the Head. He engineered the endless
“coincidences” by which our lives overlap, and it is His love for us
which enables us to love one another, now and in the years to come.





Amy taught English and History for several years before making the
switch to an independent company to teach students leadership and
communication skills. In church, she ministers mainly to youth and
young adults through bible study and prayer. She loves youth work
immensely and is convinced that the best teachers learn more than they
teach. Currently, she spends most of her time with her two young
children, cooking, reading, playing and a host of other things mummies
do.

You can read more of her motherhood musings on her personal blog



