http://ymi.today/2017/03/when-not-to-follow-your-feelings/

When (Not) to Follow Your Feelings

Author: by Contributor

Written By Debra Ayis, Nigeria

As Christians striving to walk in the footsteps of Jesus, we will
encounter instances that require us to battle our flesh. It could be
moments where we have to deliberately choose to act against our
emotions, such as choosing to forgive a person who has hurt us, being
kind to someone who has been unkind to us, or refusing to let our
anger lead us to violence.

More often than not, the struggle is tough. Though we know that our
feelings are categorically wrong and acting on them may even lead us
to take actions contrary to God’s will, we may find ourselves trying
to justify our emotions.

A few years back, I found myself in such a situation. Yes, it was all
about a boy. A boy I fell in love with, a boy that made me consider
choosing this mister over the Master. I can almost see you shaking
your head in disapproval. It seems as though there are far too many
accounts of good Christian girls being “led astray” by their
unbelieving boyfriends. But I am grateful for those stories, because
they served as words of caution in my time of need.

I met him at work, and as they say, there was instant chemistry. I was
attracted to him, not just to his looks, but to his character. He was
funny, kind, thoughtful, hardworking, generous, and intelligent. Soon
enough, I developed feelings for him. But there was one problem: he
was an atheist and hated Christianity.

Every time he praised my work ethic or my generosity, I would tell him
it wasn’t me—it was Christ in me. But he would have none of it; he
called it “religious jargon”. He insisted that the good in me was
because I was a decent person, not because of God. I tried to invite
him to church but he would always reject the invitation, saying that
religious people were “brainwashed and naïve”. He never gave the
reason behind his dislike for God—or any religion for that matter. It
was just one subject he would refuse to discuss, and soon enough I
stopped asking. I just trusted (and still trust today) that God would
reach his heart someday.

Though I knew fully well that the Bible instructs Christians not to be
unequally yoked with unbelievers (2 Corinthians 6:14), my mind had all
the “right” arguments. Like missionary dating, for instance. I thought
that as long as I prayed for him and kept living out a good Christian
witness, he would come to realize that it was Christ in me. My heart
told me that I could change him. After all, how do we bring others to
Christ if we don’t befriend them?

But my mind reminded me that it is only God who can change the heart,
not man (Ezekiel 36:26). All I could do was to continue to bear
witness through my life. Ultimately, it was his choice to make about
whom he would serve.

With this realization, I knew that getting myself involved with
someone who had fundamentally different standards and beliefs from me
would only lead to heartache in the future. I knew that getting myself
involved with someone who had fundamentally different standards and
beliefs from me would only lead to heartache in the future. Through
praying for him and praying for God’s will to be done in my life, I
began to seriously consider some pertinent questions: What did I want
from the relationship? He had already told me he didn’t believe in
waiting till marriage for sex, so would I compromise my faith for him?
Could I continue to withstand the pressure? Did I want to get married?
Would our children be nurtured in a Christian background? Would we
tithe? Would we be engaged in our local church? Would we base our
values on God’s word? Would Christ be a part of our home? Would we
allow ourselves to be led by the Spirit of God?

The answer was obvious. It was a clear no.

So I prayed for grace to control my feelings. It was difficult
avoiding him at work, but God gave me the grace to gradually steer my
thoughts to only that of friendship. I did this by focusing more on
the work itself, and developing closer ties with the other ladies at
work. I took the opportunity to move to the opposite end of the office
from him and restricted our conversations to strictly professional
matters.

Was the decision to part with someone I fancied but didn’t share my
faith difficult? Yes. Did I regret doing it? Absolutely not. I do not
regret my decision because I knew all things work for good to those
that love God (Romans 8:28). I also knew that God wanted to protect me
from a relationship that could lead to harm in the future.

So while reining in my feelings hurt during that period, I believe
that the experience strengthened my faith. Now, I am less prone to let
my feelings wander beyond control, such as at times when I feel angry
or resentful, or when I’m tempted to misplace my love and loyalty.
Though it is not easy overcoming my own emotions, I know that God will
not allow me to be tempted beyond what I can handle (1 Corinthians
10:13). I have learned to wait on God and to guard my heart with all
diligence (Proverbs 4:23). I have also learned to fully trust God and
wait on His leading before making any decision in life (Proverbs
3:5-6).

