http://ymi.today/2017/07/i-was-blind-but-now-i-see/

I Was Blind, But Now I See

Author: by Contributor

Written by Samarpal L., Indonesia, originally in Bahasa Indonesia

It was six years ago that I lost the vision in my left eye. Today,
after much struggle, I can finally see God’s purpose in it.

I still remember the date: October 31, 2011. I was cramming hard for
my mid-term tests on campus with a group of friends when we were
approached by some senior students. They wanted us to join them in
tawuran, which is a fight typically held by high school students.

They reasoned that as their juniors, we had to honor and obey them. If
we refused, they would use their position as laboratory assistants to
fail our laboratory scores. As a freshman majoring in mechanical
engineering, I was eager to do well for my tests. I was worried that
my grades would suffer and hesitantly joined them.

There we were, hundreds of us, trading blows on the street. In the
middle of the tawuran, someone threw a stone and it hit my left eye. I
was so shocked by the impact that I couldn’t register what had
happened. I touched my face and realized that blood was gushing out
from my eye.

My friends rushed me to the closest hospital. The doctor did a small
surgery on my eye and sewed the eyelid shut. He told me that there was
only a small chance for a full recovery because my cornea had been
torn.

I could not believe it. I kept thinking about what this would mean for
my future. I had been working so hard as I have always wanted to be an
engineer. But now my dreams had been dashed. Surely no organisation
would hire someone like me: an engineer with one eye.

My fears turned out to be true. After graduating, I went for interview
after interview and was rejected time and again. Even though I passed
the psychology and expertise tests with ease, I would always fail the
health test. It became a familiar refrain: my prospective employers
felt unsure about my disability. They could not see how someone like
me could do the job.

I was crushed. It felt as if God had forsaken me. Why did He put me
through this? Slowly, I began to question God’s goodness and my
relationship with Him turned sour.

I tried to pray and continue doing my devotion, but I was full of
bitterness. I could not accept the situation. In the end, I gave up
trying—I stopped praying and reading my Bible for about three months.

But God had not given up on me. By chance—or maybe not—I read an
online article that turned out to be a true wake-up call.

It said “God is waiting patiently for you to come and greet Him when
you wake up in the morning and before you sleep every night. Are you
really that arrogant to choose not to greet Him?”

Reading that, I really felt God speaking to me. I was so focused on my
disappointment and my negative circumstances that I could not see how
God had been blessing me throughout my life. I realized that even with
the loss of my left eye and my supposed promising future as an
engineer, He was still good to me.

My heart was broken and I cried out to God. I wanted to rebuild my
personal relationship with Him. I joined a cell-group, and the members
encouraged and cared for me. Even when I felt disappointed, I trained
myself to pray and read my Bible regularly.

One day, when I was reading the Bible during my daily devotion, I was
reminded of Job. As I read about how much he suffered and how much God
took away from him, I was humbled. Although he was put through so much
physical and emotional hardship, there was not one instance in which
he complained or blamed God for what had happened to him.

I felt so ashamed of myself and I cried. I realized that what I had
gone through was nothing compared to what Job experienced in his life.
I resolved to change myself and my attitude.

Even though I still face difficulties in my life, I’m grateful that
God gives me the strength to overcome them. He reminds me not to give
up through the encouragement from my cell group, reading His Word and
talking to Him through prayer.

Today, I am still jobless, but I am certain that God has always been
with me this whole time. Yes, it is still difficult for me to achieve
my dream of being an engineer, but I believe that God has prepared
everything I need in this world. I’m sure He also has prepared a place
for me in Heaven, so that I can be with Him always.

Through this incident, I’ve learned that God wants me to learn to
trust Him fully, and not half-heartedly. To trust Him when our life is
smooth-sailing is easy, but to keep trusting Him when times get tough
is much harder. Even so, that’s exactly what He wants from us—to trust
Him even through the difficult times. To trust Him when our life is
smooth-sailing is easy, but to keep trusting Him when times get tough
is much harder. Even so, that’s exactly what He wants from us—to trust
Him even through the difficult times.

That’s how I try to live my life right now. Even though losing my
vision in my left eye was a bitter experience, I know that there might
be more hardships to come that I’ve yet to face. While some people
brush it off as bad luck, I believe that everything that happens to me
is planned by God because nothing can happen without God’s consent.

Hence, it is so important to me to be grateful in every step of my
life. It is just as the apostle Paul said “give thanks in all
circumstances; for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus.” (1
Thessalonians 5:18)

