http://ymi.today/2015/08/why-live-with-purpose/

Why Live with Purpose?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Damilola Fasoyiro, United Kingdom

It is not uncommon to hear people asking these questions: What is my
purpose in life? What can I do to improve my life?

These are important questions. Before I found my true purpose, I felt
that something was missing in my life. Even though I was doing fine
academically and socially, I felt empty, as if there was a gap that
needed to be filled. I asked myself questions such as: Who am I living
for? Am I living to please the world around me, or for self-gain and
satisfaction?

After some time, I realized that a life filled with true joy and
happiness is one that lives for Christ. Material prosperity does not
guarantee spiritual richness. A good social and academic status may
seem to be the answer to all our material needs, but only Christ can
meet our emotional and spiritual needs. I have learned that my purpose
in life is to be more like Christ and lead a godly life that is an
example to the people around me.

There may be times when we fail to live up to God’s standard—we’re
human, after all. But His assurance of forgiveness enables us to
continue to live a purposeful life. We should strive to live a life
that is focused on pleasing God and not the world, a life that sets an
example to other Christians, and a life that embodies the whole
message of the gospel.

For me, posting Bible references or inspirational texts on social
media has been an important way to tell others about my faith, as I
find it very difficult to talk to others face to face. There have been
opportunities, however, where I have been questioned about why I do
not swear or why I do not go out with school friends on Sundays. I use
situations like these to share about my faith and what Christianity
really is.

Living with a purpose has enabled me to go on every day with the right
perspective of the world. The world around us may be filled with vile
and corruptible deeds, but our purpose-filled actions can make it a
better place to live in because we are showing others how Christ wants
us to act.

Let’s be a light for Him.

“You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness,
how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything,
except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot. You are the light of
the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people
light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its
stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way,
let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds
and glorify your Father in heaven.”—Matthew 5:13-16

