http://ymi.today/2017/09/when-god-turned-my-sorrow-to-joy/

When God Turned My Sorrow to Joy

Author: by Contributor



Written By Callie Opper, USA

In every person’s life, I believe that there is a defining moment when
we suddenly come to realize how small we are compared with God, and
how small we are compared with the problems that can overwhelm us. For
me, that moment happened on my 14th birthday.

That was when my family received news that my mom had been diagnosed
with leukemia. Almost exactly a month later, my dad was diagnosed with
lymphoma. As a 14-year-old, I didn’t know how to process the news. It
rocked my world. And because the seemingly perfect world that I had
known was now crumbling around me, I did the only thing I could at the
time—I pretended to be strong, even though I was crumbling inwardly. I
truly believed that I needed to be strong to make it through something
like this, and for God to heal my parents.

As a child growing up in a Christian environment, I had heard time and
time again that when life gets hard, we’re supposed to trust God, and
when tragedy hits, we should feel unshaken because He’s on our side.
But when the storm hit me, I didn’t feel this automatic trust in God’s
plan, and I started to believe that He was giving up on me because of
my doubts. I had accepted Christ at the age of nine and prayed a
prayer whose meaning I knew, but I didn’t understand what it really
meant to follow Jesus.

Because of this trial, I found myself feeling alone, even though I was
surrounded by so many people who loved me. I let this feeling of
abandonment take root and became insecure about myself; I began to
doubt if God was present in my world because He didn’t heal my mom.
And because I craved attention and belonging, I let the world define
who I was. Inwardly, I was running away from the one person who
promises to never abandon us; I blocked my heart and mind from letting
Him heal the hurt in me.

Over a year after my mom was diagnosed, she passed away. I had to get
used to a new normal—a life without her. I kept up an external image
that seemed to show a deep trust in God, but inwardly I was confused
and lost. I kept asking why, and I became bitter as I watched my dad
fall in love again and we moved out of my childhood home.

I believe that God does not forsake us. He pursues us and over time,
slowly breaks down the walls of our hearts.

Shortly after my mother’s passing, I signed up for a mission trip to
China. But it was for a selfish reason—I wanted to leave the country
to escape my world and to get away from the tragedy that surrounded me
and my family.

My plans, however, were drastically changed; God had plans to reveal
the selfishness of my heart and to truly heal it. One day, on a
mountain in China, He used a place of isolation to make me face the
weight of the pain I had been feeling and my rebellion against Him,
and He revealed to me the condition of my heart. For the first time in
my life, I found myself vulnerable before Him. He broke me down using
one verse: “In all our troubles, my joy knows no bounds” (2 Cor 7:4).
While I had gone to China to escape, God brought me to a place of
quiet retreat, to sit in His presence and to experience His life
transformation.

I didn’t know what true joy was, but in that one moment, I knew I
wanted it. I started pleading with the Lord for joy, to confidently
trust in His plans, His ways, and the story He had started writing for
me. And it was from that one single moment that God started to break
down my walls, to refine me, and to teach me what joy means.

Over the next few years, God chiseled away at my heart to reveal
emotions I had not wanted to face, grief that was unresolved, and lies
that I had believed about God and myself.

He showed me that joy looks a lot like vulnerability. Joy is not a
temporal happiness, but a deep-rooted contentment in God’s plan, which
we know is for our good and His purposes. He showed me that joy looks
a lot like vulnerability. Joy is not a temporal happiness, but a deep-
rooted contentment in God’s plan, which we know is for our good and
His purposes. Joy does not mean I will wake up with a smile on my face
every day; it does not mean that I will always be rejoicing in my
sorrows and in the storms. Rather, it is choosing to see God’s higher
purposes when everything is crumbling. Joy is a daily choice. It’s
laughing and embracing the tears when they come.

God taught me that being weak is so much greater than being strong.
Our weakness proclaims our need to depend on the Lord utterly. He has
taught me that it’s okay to not be okay. He welcomes our doubting and
invites us to wrestle with Him when we don’t understand what He is
doing.

The beautiful thing that I learned about God is that He never gives up
on us. He will never stop pursuing our hearts even when we try to run.
He will go into the deep and dark places of our hearts to pull us out
and to prove that He is good.

I have seen God turn my brokenness into beauty. He has removed the
bitterness I held on to tightly for years, by giving me people to walk
with me. He used the brokenness of my mom’s death to show me the
reality of how short life is, to teach me what it means to value
others, and to show me that every second matters. He has showed me the
importance of loving and living well, and how much people and
relationships matter.

God has been faithful to me in this journey. He has given me so many
glimpses of His purposes for my mom’s death. He has given me complete
joy and has taught me to embrace weakness, to cling to Him, and to
live vulnerably. He has taught me to accept grief. He has shown me
that hiding and running from the storms that He allows is useless.

I believe that God weaves unique stories for everyone. He creates
masterpieces out of our lives and weaves the deepest pain into
something far more beautiful than we could ever imagine. Life is a
gift, and the story of our lives, no matter what it looks like, paints
a radiant picture of the gospel. Our stories are all about Him and His
glory alone.

“Though the fig tree does not bud and there are no grapes on the
vines, though the olive crop fails and the fields produce no food,
though there are no sheep in the pen, and no cattle in the stalls, yet
I will rejoice in the Lord, I will be joyful in God my Savior. The
Sovereign Lord is my strength; He makes my feet like the feet of a
deer, He enables me to tread on the heights. For the director of
music, on my stringed instruments.”—Habakkuk 3

Last year I got a tattoo in my mother’s hand writing to remind me of
the faithfulness of God, to keep me grounded in Him, and in the
meaning of joy.

