http://ymi.today/2017/01/what-to-do-when-the-bible-seems-boring/

What to Do When the Bible Seems Boring

Author: by Contributor

Written by Christine E., USA

In November 2015, I decided that it would be a good idea to read
through the Bible again. The last time I had done it was a number of
years ago, and since then, I mostly hung out in the Gospels and the
letters of Paul, venturing forth occasionally to Genesis and Proverbs.

It was about time I caught up on my Bible reading. I figured three or
four chapters a day could get me from Genesis to Revelation in about a
year. That should be simple, right?

Well, apparently not. It is now January 2017, and I am not even
halfway through. What went wrong?

I started off great. On the whole, Genesis made for some pretty
interesting reading, with the Creation story, Abraham, and all that.
Exodus started off pretty well, but quickly got bogged down by all the
rules that God laid down for the nation of Israel. Then there were
more rules, followed by long lists of family names (called
genealogies). I knew that if I persevered and kept reading, I would
have other complaints, as I’m sure many of us do. But I just couldn’t
get over the genealogies.

After setting my Bible aside too many times, I finally reached out to
my friends in frustration. But I got the same response over and over
again. “Just read straight through,” they said. They told me that I
did not need to do in-depth study on everything—the important thing
was just to read it.

Which I did. And I quickly discovered that when I do sit down and read
through the more “boring” parts of the Bible (usually aloud, since
that helps me stay focused), I sometimes notice things that I didn’t
before. For example, I’ve read the story of how David took Uriah’s
wife and sent Uriah to be killed in battle a good number of times (2
Samuel 11). What I had never noticed before was that Uriah was listed
among David’s 30 mighty men (2 Samuel 23:39). These were David’s best
warriors; many of them had been following him since the days of Saul.
This meant that David knew Uriah personally. Suddenly, David’s sin
took on even greater proportions. And God’s mercy seemed ever richer.

Of course, I don’t always notice something new. For me, the lists are
often a chore to work through, and I have to fight to keep my eyes
from glazing over. Time and again, I remind myself of 2 Timothy 3:16:
“All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking,
correcting and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God
may be thoroughly equipped for every good work.”

You’ll notice that Paul said “all Scripture,” not just the interesting
parts. This includes the laws that God gave Israel. And all the
lengthy family trees. And the obscure stories that I don’t quite know
what to make of. God breathed out all of it, and all of it is useful.

Sure, there are many passages in the Bible that I still don’t get. But
I’m going to take God at His word, and trust that if I keep reading
and re-reading this entire book that He has given us—instead of just
picking out my favorite verses or chapters—His Scripture will continue
to teach, rebuke, correct, and train me in righteousness.

Think about it: during Jesus’ ministry on earth, He only had the Old
Testament. And the books that He quoted from the most were Psalms and
Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy! That makes me think twice about skipping it
in my reading plan.

God reveals himself to us in both the Old and New testaments. He is
revealed in every chapter, every paragraph, every smallest letter. God
reveals himself to us in both the Old and New testaments. He is
revealed in every chapter, every paragraph, every smallest letter.
Jesus told His followers, “For truly I tell you, until heaven and
earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a
pen, will by any means disappear from the Law until everything is
accomplished.” (Matthew 5:18). That makes the Bible worth reading.

I’m in the Psalms right now. I’ll be honest: I don’t love every moment
of it. Unlike the psalmist, I do not always find God’s words “more
precious than gold, than much pure gold; they are sweeter than honey,
than honey from the honeycomb” (Psalm 19:10).

But I hope to one day. And in the meantime, I’ll keep on reading,
trusting God to use every last letter of it to “[equip me] for every
good work.”

