http://ymi.today/2015/12/when-my-christmas-tree-fell-over/

When My Christmas Tree Fell Over

Author: by Contributor

Written By Lisa Jong, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

This year, my husband and I bought a real Christmas tree. It was our
first; I was ecstatic.

You see, when I was young in China, I could only get my hands on
plastic trees. I recall buying a small plastic tree that delighted me
no end. Years later, my husband and I spent Christmas at the home of
an American friend who had a big artificial tree, and we swooned over
it. So you can imagine how excited we were to get a real tree this
year. Finally, we had our very own, real-life Christmas tree! I
couldn’t help but feel proud.

My husband carried the tree back to our apartment, and with much
difficulty, we carefully maneuvered it into the perfect position
beside the window, adjusted its needles, and swept up the fallen
branches. The trunk seemed a little off-center, but we ignored that.
The next day, we began decorating it with two friends. When we
finished and turned off our living room lights, the moment felt
surreal. The Christmas tree lights flickered in the darkness, evoking
a sense of anticipation. It felt like there was something sweet in the
air this Christmas.

Like starry-eyed children, the four of us stayed around the Christmas
tree all evening. After our friends left, my husband and I prepared to
go to bed. But just as we were about to fall asleep, we heard a loud
thud from the living room.

Our Christmas tree had fallen over! And because it was a real tree,
the mess it created was massive. Water from the stand had spilled all
over the floor, mixed with mud from the roots of the tree—the
beautiful moment had given way to a disaster.

Though it was already late, my husband and I had no choice but to move
the tree to another position, tie it down to keep it straight, add
water, and adjust the base. And it was only because the tree fell over
that we found that there was more mud on one side. It was a quick
lesson on how to take better care of the tree and strengthen it.

Isn’t life just like a Christmas tree? Sometimes, when all seems to be
going well, we are hit by failure and tragedy, and fall over. Isn’t
life just like a Christmas tree? Sometimes, when all seems to be going
well, we are hit by failure and tragedy, and fall over. In such times,
we might ask God, “Why me? Why now? Why didn’t You protect me?”

I am very glad that we did not give up on our Christmas tree, and
spent time trying to figure out how to get it back up. I’d dare say it
is now sturdier than before! Perhaps God wants us to do the same. He
allows us to fail and to fall, so that we will have to examine what’s
wrong with our lives. It is only when we find out our weak spots, that
we can learn how to grow stronger.

While my Christmas tree fell over, I learnt a valuable lesson in life.
Is your life not going as planned? Work with God to make it stronger
together!

