https://ymi.today/2018/01/why-do-we-confess-our-sins-to-god-but-not-
to-one-another/

Why Do We Confess Our Sins To God, But Not To One Another?

Author: by Contributor

Written By Adriel Yeo, Singapore

Christian friendship is arguably the most important kind of human-to-
human relationship needed in the life of every Christian, yet seldom
talked about—unlike marriage. After all, the Bible does not expect
that all will be married, but it does expect people to be in
community, so that they can grow in maturity, encourage one another,
and experience the love of God (Eph 4:13, Heb 10:24-25).

How then should we cultivate healthy Christian friendships? A typical
reply would be to pray more with friends or to read the Bible
together. Yet, as I reflected on my 20-odd years growing up in church,
I realized that an important aspect that isn’t talked about enough is
the confession of sin to community. Yet, as I reflected on my 20-odd
years growing up in church, I realized that an important aspect that
isn’t talked about enough is the confession of sin to community.

Week after week, we would confess our sin privately during service and
then recite a scripted communal confession. Please don’t get me wrong:
The confession within church setting plays an important role in
expressing our awareness of who we are before God and in ensuring that
we are first made right by the blood of Jesus Christ (Eph 1:7).
However, could we have neglected the importance of encouraging
confession to smaller communities? I do not recall hearing many
sermons on this topic although it is equally possible that I slept
during those parts of the sermon.

Perhaps you may be thinking, “What’s the big deal about confessing our
sins to smaller faith communities?” That was a question I had when I
began reading up on this matter. And what I discovered was this:
confessing to one another can take fellowship beyond levels you
haven’t discovered.

As someone who felt distant from my church for the most part of my
life and didn’t want others to find out about my personal life outside
church, I can attest to this. The hiding of my sin from my faith
community led me to put up a front at church. A front that
misrepresented who I really was.

Well, at least I’m confessing my sins to God, you may argue. But
German martyr and theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer challenges this
thinking and makes an interesting observation:

“Why is it that it is often easier for us to confess our sins to God
than to a brother? God is holy and sinless, He is a just judge of evil
and the enemy of all disobedience. But a brother is as sinful as we
are. He knows from his own experience the dark night of secret sin.
Why should we not find it easier to go to a brother than to a holy
God? But if we do, we must ask ourselves whether we have not often
been deceiving ourselves with our confession of sin to God, whether we
have not rather been confessing our sins to ourselves and also
granting ourselves absolution. And is not the reason perhaps for our
countless relapses and the feebleness of our Christian obedience to be
found precisely in the fact that we are living on self-forgiveness and
not a real forgiveness?”

Isn’t that true? I can think of the many times where I muttered a
haphazard confession to God before sleeping, as though His forgiveness
was my right. If God is indeed holy, should it not be of a greater
concern what God thinks of our sin than our Christian brothers and
sisters? And yet, we often seem to be more fearful in confessing our
sins to people than to God.

There may, of course, be legitimate reasons for why one would choose
not to confess their sin to a particular brother, such as the fear of
causing him or her to stumble in faith. But it might also be equally
true that often times, we fear the judgement of people more than the
judgement of God. And sometimes, the unfortunate reality is that
people are far less forgiving than God.

The way forward, according to Bonhoeffer, would be to understand how
God works through our confession of sin within community to enable
believers to journey together. Unconfessed sin isolates the individual
from community precisely because it remains hidden to community. The
Christian who refuses to confess his sin to community may struggle to
live a transparent life and accept help that comes from community. The
Christian who refuses to confess his sin to community may struggle to
live a transparent life and accept help that comes from community. In
our confession of sins to fellow Christians, all pride is removed and
we are able to stand together, bearing one another’s burdens and
praying for each other (James 5:16).



This is not to say that the confession of sin within community is
without danger. In fact, there are at least two that I can think of.
The first would be for those who are listening to confessions. The
person to whom the sin is being confessed to must always remember that
true forgiveness is founded in the cross of Christ and that alone. It
is never his or her duty to bestow forgiveness.

The role of the listener is to point the confessor back to Scripture
in order that he or she may find divine forgiveness. Therein lies the
power of community. Not to act as though one is God, but rather to
display the love of Christ (John 13:34-35) through assuring those who
are repentant that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has died on the
cross precisely for what has been confessed.

The second danger would be for those who are confessing. “For the
well-being of their soul they must guard against ever making their
confession into a work of piety,” says Bonhoeffer. Salvation is not
based on our works of confession or the intensity of our faith, but on
the grounds of the blood of Jesus. In other words, it is not
confession that grants salvation, but rather Jesus who grants
salvation which is grasped by faith. Through faith, confession
follows. Both confession and repentance must then be understood as
resulting from faith that is generated by the Spirit.



Where then can such confession of sin take place? Personally, I think
the better place to start would be within small groups made up of
close friends. Tan Soo Inn, founder of Graceworks, has written a
couple of books on spiritual friendships. He advocates a 3-2-1 model
which I think might be helpful and appropriate. The idea is for a
group of three friends to meet for two hours once a month.

While I have never had the opportunity to use the 3-2-1 model, I do
have a close friend whom I meet up regularly with and with whom I can
share and confess to (I guess you could say I follow a 2-2-1 model).
What makes our friendship so close, apart from sharing Christ with one
another, is the fact that I can be transparent with him, sharing about
my weaknesses and the times that I have fallen into sin.

For those who have never practiced this discipline, trying it for the
first time may be awkward, if not frightening. But if we are to accept
that the Bible does call for this discipline (James 5:16), then we
must consider the idea that the lack of confession in spiritual
friendships hinders growth and maturity.

It is through this confession within friendship that I have come to
view my fellow brothers and sisters as fellow sinners standing under
the cross of Christ, living life together.



