http://ymi.today/2016/02/4-ways-to-cope-with-pain-and-loss/

4 Ways to Cope with Pain and Loss

Author: by Contributor

Written By Juan Carlos Tulalian, Philippines

One afternoon last December, I received a text message from my former
youth pastor asking me to pray for his wife, who was facing
complications during delivery. When he called me later to explain the
situation in detail, I could sense the tension in his voice. Both his
wife and their baby were in critical condition, and he feared that
they would not survive.

The next morning, I received an update from him that his wife had
survived, but their baby had not. As I read the message, I felt an
immediate sense of loss. I couldn’t imagine the pain my pastor was
going through.

No one can prepare for such sudden tragedies, whether it is death or a
doctor’s diagnosis that we have an incurable disease. We may start
asking: Where is God? How do I apply what I learned about suffering to
my life? So how can we cope with such situations?

When Typhoon “Haiyan” hit the Philippines in 2013, it destroyed many
places and left dead bodies lying in the streets. News footages showed
scenes of a crying child, a father looking for his family, an injured
grandmother, and many other victims of devastation. It was terrible;
it was like a horror film playing out in reality. My heart had ached
for those affected. Now, I felt just as lost for words when I heard
about the loss of my pastor’s baby. I had no words of comfort, and I
could not bring myself to utter lines like “It’s okay!”, “God has a
purpose”, or “It’s the will of God.”

Some people try to numb their feelings of pain and loss by blocking
out anything that would remind them of those feelings. But that
doesn’t change reality. These experiences have taught me that escaping
reality is not the solution. We need to face the reality that pain,
hurt, and loss do exist:

(1) Embrace our feelings Acknowledge the feelings of pain and loss.
Let’s not mask our feelings and pretend that everything is okay
because it’s not.

Through counseling, I learned to be open about my feelings instead of
bottling them up, which included moments where I cried openly. Let’s
look for trustworthy friends and fellowship groups whom we can share
our struggles with and who can comfort us and point us to God.

When we embrace our feelings, we are acknowledging our humanity and
this helps us see our need for God in life.

(2) Don’t be afraid to grieve It’s okay to cry and grieve over our
loss, and to cry out to God like the writer of Psalms did—“My God, why
have you forsaken me?” . . . “How long Oh Lord will I wait?” . . .
“Why are you downcast Oh my soul?”

Jesus is able to bear all our burdens. He knows what we’re going
through and He grieves along with us, just as He did when Lazarus died
(John 11:33-35). So let’s bring whatever we’re experiencing—anger,
hatred, loss, hurt, pain, agony—to Him and cast our cares on Him. He
understands what we are going through in life because He faced loss
and pain Himself.

Let’s hold on to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of faith, our hope
and future. He will wipe the tears from our eyes.

(3) Accept our situation Pain, hurt, loss, and suffering are
inevitable. But this is not a call to just grin and bear with
tragedies in life; we can accept them because there is a hope to look
forward to.

The apostle Paul tells us that every pain and suffering that we
currently face is not worth comparing with the glory that will be
revealed in us (Romans 8:18). And James teaches us that it is for the
development and maturity of our faith that we go through trials of
many kinds (James 1:2-3).

When I lost my job as a youth minister, it was hard for me to accept
it. I lamented and asked God many questions, but it seemed as though
God was silent. It took me a long time to accept the loss and realize
that God had intended for me to grow beyond ministering in the church
setting. He led me to serve in the community and be involved in social
welfare work.

It’s usually after we realize that God allows things to happen for a
purpose, for His glory and for our maturity that we can truly accept
our situations.

(4) Entrust ourselves to God Even when we pass through the darkest
night of our souls and no light comes along our way, let’s trust God.
Remember that He is faithful to His covenant, and will never leave nor
forsake us.

Through prayer, devotion or even in fasting, let’s seek Him each day.
No matter what comes our way, let’s always call out to Him, rely on
His grace and rest upon Him.

