http://ymi.today/2017/08/stop-being-perfect-start-being-holy/

Stop Being Perfect, Start Being Holy

Author: by Janel Breitenstein

I remember a time back in high school, running hard after God. I
thought if I could have one thing in the world, it was holiness. Maybe
it sounds to you like it did to me: Intently focused on God. Uber-
spiritual, even.

But looking back, I actually think what I wanted was to be perfect.

I am some form of a perfectionist. WordPress says I revised my last
blogpost no less than 13 times. I am often obsessive, in fact, in my
attempts to please people. (One of my friends laughs because when she
arrives at my house, I always run to place a hand towel in the
bathroom—all because she asked me for it on one occasion.)

This year, about two decades after my high school quest, I finally
realized this: The only reason I wanted to be a perfectionist was that
I detested my own failure. But I didn’t hate sin and weakness in me
because it grieved God; I hated it because I thought I was better than
that. It was a chip in my façade, a chink in my armor. I didn’t hate
sin because I loved God; I hated sin because I loved myself. I loved
my own achievement, my own goodness, my own . . . righteousness.

Maybe you’re wondering: Is there anything wrong with wanting to be
perfect? Doesn’t God say to “be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
perfect”? Shouldn’t we have zero tolerance for our weakness and sin?

But you see, my craving to be unchained from weakness was cleverly
cloaked in the right lingo of “holiness.” And the god of my quest was
myself. Insecurity oozed around my failures. It leaked out when I
didn’t meet my ideal. My husband pointed out that pride and insecurity
are actually the same sin. Both place my sense of value—or lack
thereof—in my ability to achieve my goals on my own.

When I don’t meet my ideals, I feel inferior and insecure. When I’m
meeting my standards? I’m on top of the world . . . and likely feeling
a bit superior. Neither pride nor insecurity is based on God’s
acceptance of me or His value of me, apart from what I bring to the
table.

But now, I have started to see holiness less as being free of wrong
and weakness. I no longer believe that it strictly lies in
the perfection of my outward behavior. After all, my heart’s kind of a
rotting onion: the further I peel into knowledge of myself and God,
the more underlying junk of my own is flayed open.

American Pastor and author J.D. Greear writes: “There are only two
kinds of religions: those that teach you to obey in order to be
accepted; and those that teach that you obey because you are accepted.
In every story . . . from the Bible . . . God confronts attempts at
self-salvation.”

Jesus earned my verdict. He says I’m accepted. I’m cleared. American
pastor and theologian Timothy Keller writes that in Christianity, “the
verdict leads to performance. The performance does not lead to the
verdict.” When I accept Jesus’ verdict of “innocent” for me, God says
to me what He did for Jesus: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am
well pleased.”

Rather than motivated by fear—of failure, weakness, not being
accepted—holiness is now motivated by faith that I am unconditionally,
overwhelmingly loved, accepted, and thankfully not in control. Rather
than motivated by fear—of failure, weakness, not being
accepted—holiness is now motivated by faith that I am unconditionally,
overwhelmingly loved, accepted, and thankfully not in control. It
means I’m no longer trying to save myself. Instead, I’m allowing God
to save me. My holiness flows from acceptance rather than insecurity.

Rather than strict control of my outward performance, holiness now
feels like an act of worship, a jealousy for my life to be only
His. True holiness, I think, has God as its source and object;
perfectionism has myself as its source and object. You could say my
behavior now emerges (yes, through self-discipline) from a genuine
love for God, rather than a feverish clawing for His acceptance.

This means that when I really bite it bad—snapping at my husband, say,
like I did the other night—I don’t have to be devastated because I
acted like a “bad wife”, or because I behaved in a way inconsistent
with my good character. If my mouth speaks out of the overflow of my
heart (Matthew 12:34), I need to acknowledge that this is who I am: a
sinner. I can confess to my husband without trying to blame-shift or
deny or justify my tacky talk. I can ask his forgiveness. And I can
lay my head on the pillow knowing that God’s changing me from the
inside out. But my worth can remain super-glued to Jesus’ verdict for
me in God’s courtroom.

Honestly, His performance is a lot more reliable than mine. My ability
to achieve seems to melt away in the presence of that kind of
perfection. Ultimately, I’m less and less focused on me and my rather
sketchy (hand-towel-deprived) performance.

Holiness is, in fact, an utter reliance on performance—on
perfection. Just not mine.



Janel is an author, freelance writer, and speaker. After five and a
half years in East Africa, her family of six has returned to Colorado,
where they continue to work on behalf of the poor with Engineering
Ministries International. Her first book, on spiritual life skills for
messy families (Zondervan), is planned to release March 2021. You can
find her having uncomfortable, important conversations at
JanelBreitenstein.com and on Instagram @janelbreit.



