http://ymi.today/2016/11/getting-cancer-in-my-20s/

Getting Cancer in My 20s

Author: by Contributor

Written By Abby, China, originally in Simplified Chinese

The most difficult decision I’ve had to make was in late 2014, when I
found out I had stage four breast cancer.

It all started when I felt a lump and the doctor recommended that I
undergo some pathology tests. At the time, I was not too worried as I
thought it was just a routine check. When I went to pick up the report
a week later, however, it said otherwise: I had invasive breast
cancer.

All of a sudden, I was confronted with daunting decisions about
whether or not to undergo surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation—all on
my own.

Ever since my father passed away when I was in high school, I had been
making decisions by myself. Life was already hard for my mother, who
had to raise three children on her own, and I did not want to add to
her worries. So I rarely told her my difficulties. Besides, I never
really knew how to communicate with my family.

After seeing the report in hospital that day, I went into denial. No
way! I told myself. They must have made a mistake. I was not even 29
years old. Overwhelmed by panic, I started crying. I felt at a loss,
but I knew that I could not tell my mom.

I decided to go to another hospital to get a second opinion, hoping
that they would say that the first report was not true. The next day,
I went to a hospital where my friend worked. To my dismay, the
diagnosis I received was exactly the same.

My heart sank when the doctor explained to me the treatment process:
surgery first, chemotherapy after a week—eight times in total—followed
by 30 rounds of radiation therapy. He gently told me to start
treatment as soon as possible. I felt like I was falling into a deep
hole of despair; I didn’t know where to go and what to do.

The next few days were extremely difficult for me, not just because of
my condition, but also because of the burden of the decision facing
me. Should I undergo surgery and treatment? I searched the Internet
looking for an answer, but could not find one. Eventually, I chose to
take the doctor’s advice.

A week after I received the report, I underwent an operation to remove
the lump. I went into the surgery room at 8am and was out by 11am. As
the anaesthesia hadn’t worn off, I could not move or feel anything for
a number of hours. By evening, however, I could use the bathroom with
the help of family members, and consume some liquid food. I thought I
had fared well; I did not realize that it was only the beginning.

A week after the surgery, I started chemotherapy treatment. On the
first day, I lay in bed for over 10 hours. While I did not feel much
pain, neither did I feel like eating anything. I felt like throwing up
every time I smelled food. Still, I was proud of myself because I
thought I was in good shape. A week after my first chemotherapy
session, I still had all my hair. So I assumed I was among the lucky 1
percent whose hair were not affected by treatment.

On the 10th day, however, my hair started falling out. Even with the
gentlest touch, it would fall out in clumps. Also, my stomach
continued to feel queasy, and I could not eat anything. After the
first week, I had my first weekly blood test. The report said that my
white blood cell count had dropped to just above 1,000 per microliter
(mcL)—well below the normal healthy range of 4,500 to 10,000.

The doctor put me on intravenous (IV) therapy immediately, hoping to
increase the white blood cell count. But it did not go up. The doctor
said my second chemotherapy session might need to be delayed if my
white blood cell count did not go up. Thankfully, it went up the day
before I was to start my second chemotherapy session.

By that time, I was almost completely bald. The second session hit me
hard—I kept vomiting, and had to sit outside the ward to be
administered IV therapy because the smell of food in the ward made me
want to throw up.

At the time, I didn’t know God. Yet He reached out to me even in my
most difficult moments. Sometime after my surgery, my aunt visited me
in hospital and asked if I would like to go to church with her.
Somehow, her words touched me at that moment and I said yes. In the
past, I would never have responded this way—my mother and I used to
object vehemently whenever my aunt tried to share the gospel with us.
We even told her not to visit our house any more if she continued to
talk about God.

So, after being discharged from hospital, I went to church with my
aunt. Although I did not fully understand what the pastor was saying,
I decided to pray along with him. Truth be told, I did not feel God’s
presence then. Nonetheless, I decided to keep going to church to learn
about Him. I ended up going to church every Sunday throughout my whole
treatment.

I still remember the first time I attended a small group session; the
topic of discussion that day was “facing giants”, based on the story
of David and Goliath (Samuel 17:1-11). I was touched by the honest and
open sharing by fellow brothers and sisters about the “giants” they
had faced or were still facing in their lives. Tears started to flow
down my face as I listened to their stories. The Holy Spirit convicted
me to share my struggles with them, and they prayed for me. I remember
distinctly Proverbs 3:25-26, which was shared that night. It said,
“Have no fear of sudden disaster or of the ruin that overtakes the
wicked, for the Lord will be at your side and will keep your foot from
being snared.”

That was the first time I experienced God’s love.

Over the next eight months, as I continued to undergo treatment and
battle the side effects of nausea and fatigue, my relationship with
God deepened. I learned about love and how God loves us. I discovered
that He is love. And because of His love, I was able to experience the
beauty of life. I learned to be grateful for my family, my church
brothers and sisters, and for all the blessings from God.

In October 2015, I was baptised. It was the best choice I’ve ever made
in life. From that moment, I’ve committed to put God first in my life
and live each moment in His presence. By God’s grace, I am now able to
experience joy and satisfaction in every small thing He has given me
in life. I used to pray that God would heal my body and give me what I
want in my life. Now, I pray that God will use me to do His work. I
used to pray that God would heal my body and give me what I want in my
life. Now, I pray that God will use me to do His work. I pray that He
will help my small church group to grow. And I pray that God will help
my friends and family to seek Him.

At the start of this year, I was finally given the good news—by the
grace of God, my cancer was in remission.

As I look back now, I thank God for walking with me through the entire
treatment period. Because of Him, I can live differently. Because of
His love, I’ve begun to understand the purpose of my life. Because of
Him, I can lay down all my burdens, be vulnerable, and seek His help.
Because of His love, I can enjoy inner peace and joy in spite of my
circumstances. Whenever I am worried, I hear Him telling me,
“Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about
itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own” (Matthew 6:34).

These days, I feel fine as long as I exercise and have enough rest.
Those who do not know me may not even be able to tell that I was once
sick. But what is of greater importance to me now is that regardless
of how my external self is faring, I know God is healing my inner self
every day.



