http://ymi.today/2016/12/the-courage-to-grieve/

The Courage To Grieve

Author: by Contributor

Written by Laura Morgan, USAI am not at all claiming to be an expert
on the varied topic of grief. Although there may be familiar elements
between individuals’ grief experiences, their paths are distinctly
unique.

With that in mind, it’d be ridiculous for me to make any sweeping
generalizations regarding how to grieve or what to expect. I do not
know what you’re going through, nor can I claim insight into what is
to be anticipated. That said, I think a common thread among the
different grief journeys is that completing them well requires a
special courage.

My own experience with grief started from a horrific car accident that
resulted in the loss of my plans, many of my cherished pastimes, and
inadvertently, also some of my identity. The latest blow came this
past fall, when I was told that I wouldn’t be given a full-time job in
speech pathology, which I was hoping for.

As a speech pathologist, you have two years after obtaining your
master’s degree to complete your clinical fellowship in order to gain
full licensure. I was exactly half way through this supervised
internship when the accident occurred. As a result of my severe
injuries, my stint was cut short and in the year following the
accident, my full-time job was attending doctor appointments and rehab
sessions. I used countless pages of paper telling the state licensing
board why I probably wouldn’t be meeting the two-year licensing
deadline and requesting for an extension.

While completing my own physical therapy, I volunteered over 400 hours
at two fabulous medical facilities. At the first one, I completed
administrative tasks cheerfully and to the best of my ability,
clinging to any verbal encouragements I received about an eventual
offer for a clinical fellowship. However, I wasn’t offered one and my
time volunteering there eventually ended without an offer of
employment. At the second facility, I volunteered many more hours,
again hoping to be offered a job as a speech therapist.

I put every effort into making it happen, but eventually realized they
had no intention of hiring me full-time. The end of the second
volunteer position came as a huge blow, reviving the hopelessness I
had felt after the accident. I had thought I’d worked through these
feelings, believing that I had been able to put the loss behind me,
but now, it all came back.

I have learned that grief is not a linear process. Even after
appearing to have resolved a particular loss in a mature way, it is
likely to pop up again, sometimes when least expected. Situations may
also arise which require the individual to face these emotions a
second time—or for the 1,000th time.

It takes courage to embark on a path that, while necessary, will
surely be painful. False inner voices or those outside your own head
may give you the impression that you’ve already worked through that
grief, and that it’s time to move on. But the truth is, it may not
always be the case. With the necessary boldness, unapologetically
admit that you need to grieve.

Grieving is hard—and often daunting—work. It requires endurance to
accept that as an individual, or even in supporting a loved one, you
are in it for the long haul. Life is not going to return to what it
was before, although you may find joy beyond your imagination. Boldly
leave room for the potential of that joy to come.

This 19 December will mark the fourth anniversary of my accident. The
life I led before the accident seems like a memory from just
yesterday, but at the same time, so foreign that it feels like it came
from a different lifetime. I have almost no emotional connection to
the gregarious, active and capable young woman I see in pictures from
before the accident. I’ve come further along in recovery than I
could’ve hoped for during the initial months after the accident,
while, at the same time, I’m not as far as I would wish.

I’ve learned that it takes courage to acknowledge that even in the
midst of grief, there may be moments of happiness. It doesn’t need to
make sense or be consistent with an overall emotional experience;
there can be happy times even during long journeys of grief. It can be
beneficial to put on “blinders”, so that you can only see what’s
directly in front of you. What you already have, here and now, in this
moment, is everything you need at this point to honor God. Try not to
dwell on the possibilities or expectations about how your grief will
unfold.

Not following a preconceived script on the way one “should” grieve
requires courage that will shape your outlook towards the future.

