http://ymi.today/2016/08/its-time-we-stop-being-perfect/

It’s Time We Stop Being “Perfect”

Author: by Contributor

Written by Michelle Teo, Singapore

Perfection. It’s in a frozen smile and windswept hair. It’s in soft,
brown hair or slim, toned legs. It’s when someone has everything
together. We see perfection—but only when we are not looking closely
enough.

I used to envy other girls for their beauty and popularity. I used to
be jealous about how “perfect” they were, because I was sure they had
no worries. Surely, I thought, their lives were just as perfect. Even
if there was anything wrong in their lives, I believed it had to be
something really small. Perhaps she had a bad hair day. Maybe she
scored 98 instead of 100 in a test. Maybe the most charming boy in
school didn’t fall for her, and she would now have to settle for one
of the other 99 mediocre guys vying for her attention. Whatever it
was, it was definitely nothing as big and bad as the rest of us had to
go through.

Sometimes, this desire for “perfection” affects the way we view our
own lives. Before we realize it, we want others to view us in the same
light. We want others to think our lives are “perfect”. So we pull you
into our arms and tell you little stories of our lives, whispering as
though they were the truth. We brush the hair away from our faces and
smile as we assure you that nothing is wrong.

We create the illusion of perfection when we see judging expressions
for our mess, our chaos, and our bleeding hearts. We create it when we
keep on talking about how holy we should be, how a sinner can never
glorify Christ. We create it when we expect believers and non-
believers alike to be holy—because God is—without thinking twice about
their hurt and shame. We create it because we want to believe we are
worthy and accepted and loved. We create it, build it, refine it, and
solidify it, when that becomes all that’s expected of us.

But three years in university made me finally realize that the
perfection I’m so obsessed about simply doesn’t exist. For the most
part, it’s merely a front that no one can hold up forever. I saw
“perfect” people fall; I saw them embarrass themselves in front of
crowds. I saw them getting drunk and crying when morning came. I saw
“perfect” students find no meaning in life, and the “perfect” couple
fighting and looking to break up.

It can be the same even for believers. Sometimes, the crosses we wear
on our necks fail to hold us back from making a snide remark, and we
do something wrong before we can stop ourselves.

There is imperfection everywhere. We don’t have to demand perfection
from others, neither do we have to demand it of ourselves. We don’t
have to demand perfection from others, neither do we have to demand it
of ourselves. It is tiring, agonizing, and ultimately, disappointing.
When we accept that we make mistakes, that no one is perfect in this
huge world, that’s when we start living in reality. But if we’re
always striving for “perfection”, we never will experience life the
way it deserves to be experienced. There is no perfection, save for
God.

Sure, we were meant to be perfect; this entire world was. When God
created humans with free choice, He knew there was a chance we might
stray from His perfection. Eve made a choice, and she ate from the
Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Adam made a choice, and jumped
right into sin with Eve. The moment Adam and Eve chose to live their
own way, we walked away from perfection.

And this perfection can never be restored without Christ—so let’s stop
making our own version of it.



EDITOR’S NOTE: Read “Bidding Farewell to Little Miss Perfect”

