http://ymi.today/2016/08/i-was-jealous-of-my-best-friend/

I Was Jealous of My Best Friend

Author: by Contributor

Written By Natalie Hanna Tan, Singapore

I have something to confess: I was once jealous of my best friend.

I didn’t mean to feel this way, and I’m not quite sure how it
happened. We’d grown up and shared everything since we were young: our
joys and tears, our secrets and dreams. We were pretty similar in many
ways—our interests, personalities, and passions all matched. We even
had strangers believe we are sisters (and we often played along with
it).

But things changed in 2013 when I began to feel a strain in the
friendship. It started off with a small thought: “Why is she part of
the planning committee (for a church event) and not me?” This thought
grew into something bigger as the months went by.

As I tried to sweep the thought under the carpet in the hope that it
would somehow magically disappear, the devil, in his subtle ways,
started to tamper with my thoughts and emotions. As my best friend
became a more prominent figure in church, he capitalized on my
feelings of inferiority, causing me to grow jealous and bitter towards
her. She was pretty, likeable, talented . . . and perfect; she was
everything I’d ever wanted to be, and she had everything I’d always
wanted to have.

I became frustrated with God, and regularly asked Him why He seemed
good to her, but not to me. Why did she have so many opportunities to
serve? Why was I not succeeding in my ministry while she was receiving
so many blessings? Why did everyone seem to like her more? I
constantly tried to prove myself to others, striving to “up my game”
and to be better than her. Before I knew it, I had given in to
jealousy and selfish ambition; I had given in to the flesh.

The truth was, I had lost sight of what true success was. To be
successful in the church setting, I had thought, was about how active
I was. I thought I should serve in many teams, plan various events for
the youth congregation, mentor younger girls, speak eloquently in
youth meetings, and touch many lives. But God revealed to me that it
was not about external appearances, and showed me what it truly meant
to be a successful follower of Christ.

In Galatians 5:19-21, the apostle Paul lists out the practices of the
flesh which will cause us to not inherit the Kingdom of God.
Essentially, if we continually indulge in these practices, it shows
that we have not submitted to Christ’s redemption and the Spirit’s
renewal.

The opposite of living by the flesh is to live by the Spirit
(Galatians 5:22-26). This is shown when our lives display fruit of the
Spirit instead of sin, which includes envying each other. The opposite
of living by the flesh is to live by the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-26).
This is shown when our lives display fruit of the Spirit instead of
sin, which includes envying each other. As God works in our lives to
renew and transform us, we grow in our desire to please Him and
reflect His heart and character through our lives.

In allowing myself to be overcome with feelings of jealousy, I’d
unknowingly given myself over to the world; I was not allowing God to
work in me and through me. I wasn’t living by the Spirit.

During this time, my best friend felt the tension in our friendship as
well. We stopped meeting because we both knew there was something
wrong—but we didn’t know how to fix it. I confided in my mentor at
church about the frustrations I had. If not for her pulling us
together to talk things through, we might have given up on the
friendship entirely.

It took a whole string of prayers and heart-to-heart talks before we
had our breakthrough. It wasn’t the usual “let’s-sit-down-and-talk-
about-life” kind of talk we had before. Instead, we had to honestly
tell each other what we weren’t happy about and the various hurts we’d
felt.

On my part, I had to manage my expectations of the friendship and of
her. I needed to understand that as much as we seemed to be completely
alike, God had different plans for us. Our strengths were different
and I should not compare myself to her. Instead, I ought to support
her—not just in her ministry, but in all that she’s involved in.

To be honest, it wasn’t easy at all. But through this time, I learned
to take captive every negative thought and surrender it to God. It
took many sleepless and painful nights to let go of all the emotions
and to rebuild our friendship from scratch.

But I can now say that it was all worth it. It’s been three years
since it happened, and by God’s grace, I am happy to say that our
friendship has since matured, and we’re growing and journeying on
through life, stronger than before.

