http://ymi.today/2015/06/what-my-ideal-family-looks-like/

What My Ideal Family Looks Like

Author: by Michele Ong

I had always wished that I was an Eurasian, so I would have nice big,
deep-set eyes and light brown hair. Ideally, I would be the youngest
of three, with two elder brothers, and I would be studying in an
international school in an Asian country where my dad works as a
diplomat. My English name would have a graceful ring to it, like “Ella
Rosewood”. I would take my summer vacations overseas, returning to
Asia only when the school term began. We would live in a nice house,
with lush, green lawns, an outdoor Olympic-sized pool, and a host of
helpers, from drivers to gardeners.

In reality, I am about as Asian as you can get. I have black hair, and
my eyes are not as big as I would wish them to be. My Chinese surname
translates to “King” in English, but it would be a great disrespect to
my ancestors if I had my name changed to Michele King. I have a
younger sister, and we get on like a house on fire. And I spent a fair
bit of my childhood in Malaysia before my family moved overseas. (And
for the record, I do my own chores.)

Many of us have our own image of what our ideal family should look
like. Maybe it’s a traditional one, where the husband brings home the
bacon while his wife looks after their young children. Or maybe it’s a
DINK (Dual Income, No Kids). Or maybe it’s one with lots and lots of
children, so you can shower them all with your love.

Unfortunately, we live in a fallen world. Instead of having ideal
families, we find ourselves battling the effects of broken
relationships, revelations of adulterous spouses, squabbles between
siblings over an inheritance, or the devastating blow of an inability
to conceive.

We yearn to have the ideal family and to be loved and accepted. It’s
perfectly normal, because we were made for relationships. God formed
us for a relationship with Him, and this is shown in the way we seek
the perfect partner, a best friend, or an interest group to belong to.
We want to be accepted, warts and all.

How comforting it is, then, to know that God has called us His
children, and He is waiting to accept us into His fold. How comforting
it is, then, to know that God has called us His children, and He is
waiting to accept us into His fold. When we accept God’s invitation to
be part of His family, we receive a new spirit: “For you did not
receive the spirit of slavery leading again to fear, but you received
the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, ‘Abba, Father’”(Romans 8:15).

Imagine how wonderful it is to be able to call the Creator of the
universe, “Father”. And do you know what you mean to Him? You’re the
Apple of His eye (Psalm 17:8).

When we enter into a relationship with God, we rest knowing that our
Father loves us more than our earthly parents do, and He will always
be with us in our time of deepest need.

God is calling out to you today, regardless of your race, religion,
and socioeconomic background. He wants you to be part of His family.
He loves you with an everlasting love, and there is nothing He wants
more than to live life with you.



Click here to view “Editor’s Picks: Top 3 Articles | Idealism“



Michele relocated from New Zealand to Australia to join the YMI team
as a full-time staff, putting an end to her status as a volunteer
contributor. A former journalist, Michele loves the written word, and
knows the power it has to inspire and to transform lives. During her
spare time, she can be found in the pools pretending to be an elite
swimmer.



