http://utmost.org/reconciling-yourself-to-the-fact-of-sin/

Reconciling Yourself to the Fact of Sin

This is your hour, and the power of darkness. —Luke 22:53

Not being reconciled to the fact of sin— not recognizing it and
refusing to deal with it— produces all the disasters in life. You may
talk about the lofty virtues of human nature, but there is something
in human nature that will mockingly laugh in the face of every
principle you have. If you refuse to agree with the fact that there is
wickedness and selfishness, something downright hateful and wrong, in
human beings, when it attacks your life, instead of reconciling
yourself to it, you will compromise with it and say that it is of no
use to battle against it. Have you taken this “hour, and the power of
darkness” into account, or do you have a view of yourself which
includes no recognition of sin whatsoever? In your human relationships
and friendships, have you reconciled yourself to the fact of sin? If
not, just around the next corner you will find yourself trapped and
you will compromise with it. But if you will reconcile yourself to the
fact of sin, you will realize the danger immediately and say, “Yes, I
see what this sin would mean.” The recognition of sin does not destroy
the basis of friendship— it simply establishes a mutual respect for
the fact that the basis of sinful life is disastrous. Always beware of
any assessment of life which does not recognize the fact that there is
sin.

Jesus Christ never trusted human nature, yet He was never cynical nor
suspicious, because He had absolute trust in what He could do for
human nature. The pure man or woman is the one who is shielded from
harm, not the innocent person. The so-called innocent man or woman is
never safe. Men and women have no business trying to be innocent; God
demands that they be pure and virtuous. Innocence is the
characteristic of a child. Any person is deserving of blame if he is
unwilling to reconcile himself to the fact of sin.

By Oswald Chambers

