http://utmost.org/the-conditions-of-discipleship/

The Conditions of Discipleship

If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother, wife
and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also….And
whoever does not bear his cross and come after Me….So likewise,
whoever of you does not forsake all that he has cannot be My disciple.
—Luke 14:26-27, 33

If the closest relationships of a disciple’s life conflict with the
claims of Jesus Christ, then our Lord requires instant obedience to
Himself. Discipleship means personal, passionate devotion to a Person—
our Lord Jesus Christ. There is a vast difference between devotion to
a person and devotion to principles or to a cause. Our Lord never
proclaimed a cause— He proclaimed personal devotion to Himself. To be
a disciple is to be a devoted bondservant motivated by love for the
Lord Jesus. Many of us who call ourselves Christians are not truly
devoted to Jesus Christ. No one on earth has this passionate love for
the Lord Jesus unless the Holy Spirit has given it to him. We may
admire, respect, and revere Him, but we cannot love Him on our own.
The only One who truly loves the Lord Jesus is the Holy Spirit, and it
is He who has “poured out in our hearts” the very “love of God”
(Romans 5:5). Whenever the Holy Spirit sees an opportunity to glorify
Jesus through you, He will take your entire being and set you ablaze
with glowing devotion to Jesus Christ.

The Christian life is a life characterized by true and spontaneous
creativity. Consequently, a disciple is subject to the same charge
that was leveled against Jesus Christ, namely, the charge of
inconsistency. But Jesus Christ was always consistent in His
relationship to God, and a Christian must be consistent in his
relationship to the life of the Son of God in him, not consistent to
strict, unyielding doctrines. People pour themselves into their own
doctrines, and God has to blast them out of their preconceived ideas
before they can become devoted to Jesus Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

