http://utmost.org/getting-there-2/

Getting There (2)

They said to Him, "Rabbi…where are You staying?" He said to them,
"Come and see." —John 1:38-39

Where our self-interest sleeps and the real interest is awakened.
“They…remained with Him that day….” That is about all some of us ever
do. We stay with Him a short time, only to wake up to our own
realities of life. Our self-interest rises up and our abiding with Him
is past. Yet there is no circumstance of life in which we cannot abide
in Jesus.

“You are Simon….You shall be called Cephas” (John 1:42). God writes
our new name only on those places in our lives where He has erased our
pride, self-sufficiency, and self-interest. Some of us have our new
name written only in certain spots, like spiritual measles. And in
those areas of our lives we look all right. When we are in our best
spiritual mood, you would think we were the highest quality saints.
But don’t dare look at us when we are not in that mood. A true
disciple is one who has his new name written all over him— self-
interest, pride, and self-sufficiency have been completely erased.

Pride is the sin of making “self” our god. And some of us today do
this, not like the Pharisee, but like the tax collector (see Luke
18:9-14). For you to say, “Oh, I’m no saint,” is acceptable by human
standards of pride, but it is unconscious blasphemy against God. You
defy God to make you a saint, as if to say, “I am too weak and
hopeless and outside the reach of the atonement by the Cross of
Christ.” Why aren’t you a saint? It is either that you do not want to
be a saint, or that you do not believe that God can make you into one.
You say it would be all right if God saved you and took you straight
to heaven. That is exactly what He will do! And not only do we make
our home with Him, but Jesus said of His Father and Himself, “…We will
come to him and make Our home with him” (John 14:23). Put no
conditions on your life— let Jesus be everything to you, and He will
take you home with Him not only for a day, but for eternity.

By Oswald Chambers

