http://utmost.org/what-you-will-get/

What You Will Get

I will give your life to you as a prize in all places, wherever you
go. —Jeremiah 45:5

This is the firm and immovable secret of the Lord to those who trust
Him– “I will give your life to you….” What more does a man want than
his life? It is the essential thing. “…your life…as a prize…” means
that wherever you may go, even if it is into hell, you will come out
with your life and nothing can harm it. So many of us are caught up in
exhibiting things for others to see, not showing off property and
possessions, but our blessings. All these things that we so proudly
show have to go. But there is something greater that can never go– the
life that “is hidden with Christ in God” (Colossians 3:3).

Are you prepared to let God take you into total oneness with Himself,
paying no more attention to what you call the great things of life?
Are you prepared to surrender totally and let go? The true test of
abandonment or surrender is in refusing to say, “Well, what about
this?” Beware of your own ideas and speculations. The moment you allow
yourself to think, “What about this?” you show that you have not
surrendered and that you do not really trust God. But once you do
surrender, you will no longer think about what God is going to do.
Abandonment means to refuse yourself the luxury of asking any
questions. If you totally abandon yourself to God, He immediately says
to you, “I will give your life to you as a prize….” The reason people
are tired of life is that God has not given them anything— they have
not been given their life “as a prize.” The way to get out of that
condition is to abandon yourself to God. And once you do get to the
point of total surrender to Him, you will be the most surprised and
delighted person on earth. God will have you absolutely, without any
limitations, and He will have given you your life. If you are not
there, it is either because of disobedience in your life or your
refusal to be simple enough.

By Oswald Chambers

