http://utmost.org/the-compelling-purpose-of-god/

The Compelling Purpose of God

He…said to them, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem…" —Luke 18:31

Jerusalem, in the life of our Lord, represents the place where He
reached the culmination of His Father’s will. Jesus said, “I do not
seek My own will but the will of the Father who sent Me” (John 5:30).
Seeking to do “the will of the Father” was the one dominating concern
throughout our Lord’s life. And whatever He encountered along the way,
whether joy or sorrow, success or failure, He was never deterred from
that purpose. “…He steadfastly set His face to go to Jerusalem…” (Luke
9:51).

The greatest thing for us to remember is that we go up to Jerusalem to
fulfill God’s purpose, not our own. In the natural life our ambitions
are our own, but in the Christian life we have no goals of our own. We
talk so much today about our decisions for Christ, our determination
to be Christians, and our decisions for this and that, but in the New
Testament the only aspect that is brought out is the compelling
purpose of God. “You did not choose Me, but I chose you…” (John
15:16).

We are not taken into a conscious agreement with God’s purpose— we are
taken into God’s purpose with no awareness of it at all. We have no
idea what God’s goal may be; as we continue, His purpose becomes even
more and more vague. God’s aim appears to have missed the mark,
because we are too nearsighted to see the target at which He is
aiming. At the beginning of the Christian life, we have our own ideas
as to what God’s purpose is. We say, “God means for me to go over
there,” and, “God has called me to do this special work.” We do what
we think is right, and yet the compelling purpose of God remains upon
us. The work we do is of no account when compared with the compelling
purpose of God. It is simply the scaffolding surrounding His work and
His plan. “He took the twelve aside…” (Luke 18:31). God takes us aside
all the time. We have not yet understood all there is to know of the
compelling purpose of God.

By Oswald Chambers

