http://utmost.org/let-us-keep-to-the-point/

Let Us Keep to the Point

"…my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed,
but with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ will be magnified
in my body, whether by life or by death." —Philippians 1:20

My Utmost for His Highest. “…my earnest expectation and hope that in
nothing I shall be ashamed….” We will all feel very much ashamed if we
do not yield to Jesus the areas of our lives He has asked us to yield
to Him. It’s as if Paul were saying, “My determined purpose is to be
my utmost for His highest— my best for His glory.” To reach that level
of determination is a matter of the will, not of debate or of
reasoning. It is absolute and irrevocable surrender of the will at
that point. An undue amount of thought and consideration for ourselves
is what keeps us from making that decision, although we cover it up
with the pretense that it is others we are considering. When we think
seriously about what it will cost others if we obey the call of Jesus,
we tell God He doesn’t know what our obedience will mean. Keep to the
point— He does know. Shut out every other thought and keep yourself
before God in this one thing only— my utmost for His highest. I am
determined to be absolutely and entirely for Him and Him alone.

My Unstoppable Determination for His Holiness. “Whether it means life
or death-it makes no difference!” (see Philippians 1:21). Paul was
determined that nothing would stop him from doing exactly what God
wanted. But before we choose to follow God’s will, a crisis must
develop in our lives. This happens because we tend to be unresponsive
to God’s gentler nudges. He brings us to the place where He asks us to
be our utmost for Him and we begin to debate. He then providentially
produces a crisis where we have to decide— for or against. That moment
becomes a great crossroads in our lives. If a crisis has come to you
on any front, surrender your will to Jesus absolutely and irrevocably.

By Oswald Chambers

