http://utmost.org/drawing-on-the-grace-of-god%E2%80%94-now/

Drawing on the Grace of God— Now

We…plead with you not to receive the grace of God in vain. —2
Corinthians 6:1

The grace you had yesterday will not be sufficient for today. Grace is
the overflowing favor of God, and you can always count on it being
available to draw upon as needed. “…in much patience, in tribulations,
in needs, in distresses”— that is where our patience is tested (2
Corinthians 6:4). Are you failing to rely on the grace of God there?
Are you saying to yourself, “Oh well, I won’t count this time”? It is
not a question of praying and asking God to help you— it is taking the
grace of God now. We tend to make prayer the preparation for our
service, yet it is never that in the Bible. Prayer is the practice of
drawing on the grace of God. Don’t say, “I will endure this until I
can get away and pray.” Pray now — draw on the grace of God in your
moment of need. Prayer is the most normal and useful thing; it is not
simply a reflex action of your devotion to God. We are very slow to
learn to draw on God’s grace through prayer.

“…in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors…” (2 Corinthians
6:5)— in all these things, display in your life a drawing on the grace
of God, which will show evidence to yourself and to others that you
are a miracle of His. Draw on His grace now, not later. The primary
word in the spiritual vocabulary is now. Let circumstances take you
where they will, but keep drawing on the grace of God in whatever
condition you may find yourself. One of the greatest proofs that you
are drawing on the grace of God is that you can be totally humiliated
before others without displaying even the slightest trace of anything
but His grace.

“…having nothing….” Never hold anything in reserve. Pour yourself out,
giving the best that you have, and always be poor. Never be diplomatic
and careful with the treasure God gives you. “…and yet possessing all
things”— this is poverty triumphant (2 Corinthians 6:10).

By Oswald Chambers

