http://utmost.org/prayer-in-the-father%E2%80%99s-hearing/

Prayer in the Father’s Hearing

Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, "Father, I thank You that You have
heard Me." —John 11:41

When the Son of God prays, He is mindful and consciously aware of only
His Father. God always hears the prayers of His Son, and if the Son of
God has been formed in me (see Galatians 4:19) the Father will always
hear my prayers. But I must see to it that the Son of God is exhibited
in my human flesh. “…your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit…” (1
Corinthians 6:19), that is, your body is the Bethlehem of God’s Son.
Is the Son of God being given His opportunity to work in me? Is the
direct simplicity of His life being worked out in me exactly as it was
worked out in His life while here on earth? When I come into contact
with the everyday occurrences of life as an ordinary human being, is
the prayer of God’s eternal Son to His Father being prayed in me?
Jesus says, “In that day you will ask in My name…” (John 16:26). What
day does He mean? He is referring to the day when the Holy Spirit has
come to me and made me one with my Lord.

Is the Lord Jesus Christ being abundantly satisfied by your life, or
are you exhibiting a walk of spiritual pride before Him? Never let
your common sense become so prominent and forceful that it pushes the
Son of God to one side. Common sense is a gift that God gave to our
human nature— but common sense is not the gift of His Son.
Supernatural sense is the gift of His Son, and we should never put our
common sense on the throne. The Son always recognizes and identifies
with the Father, but common sense has never yet done so and never
will. Our ordinary abilities will never worship God unless they are
transformed by the indwelling Son of God. We must make sure that our
human flesh is kept in perfect submission to Him, allowing Him to work
through it moment by moment. Are we living at such a level of human
dependence upon Jesus Christ that His life is being exhibited moment
by moment in us?

By Oswald Chambers

