http://utmost.org/the-unchanging-law-of-judgment/

The Unchanging Law of Judgment

With what judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with the measure
you use, it will be measured back to you. —Matthew 7:2

This statement is not some haphazard theory, but it is an eternal law
of God. Whatever judgment you give will be the very way you are
judged. There is a difference between retaliation and retribution.
Jesus said that the basis of life is retribution— “with the measure
you use, it will be measured back to you.” If you have been shrewd in
finding out the shortcomings of others, remember that will be exactly
how you will be measured. The way you pay is the way life will pay you
back. This eternal law works from God’s throne down to us (see Psalm
18:25-26).

Romans 2:1 applies it in even a more definite way by saying that the
one who criticizes another is guilty of the very same thing. God looks
not only at the act itself, but also at the possibility of committing
it, which He sees by looking at our hearts. To begin with, we do not
believe the statements of the Bible. For instance, do we really
believe the statement that says we criticize in others the very things
we are guilty of ourselves? The reason we see hypocrisy, deceit, and a
lack of genuineness in others is that they are all in our own hearts.
The greatest characteristic of a saint is humility, as evidenced by
being able to say honestly and humbly, “Yes, all those, as well as
other evils, would have been exhibited in me if it were not for the
grace of God. Therefore, I have no right to judge.”

Jesus said, “Judge not, that you be not judged” (Matthew 7:1). He went
on to say, in effect, “If you do judge, you will be judged in exactly
the same way.” Who of us would dare to stand before God and say, “My
God, judge me as I have judged others”? We have judged others as
sinners— if God should judge us in the same way, we would be condemned
to hell. Yet God judges us on the basis of the miraculous atonement by
the Cross of Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

