http://utmost.org/the-key-of-the-greater-work/

The Key of the Greater Work

…I say to you, he who believes in Me,…greater works than these he will
do, because I go to My Father. —John 14:12

Prayer does not equip us for greater works— prayer is the greater
work. Yet we think of prayer as some commonsense exercise of our
higher powers that simply prepares us for God’s work. In the teachings
of Jesus Christ, prayer is the working of the miracle of redemption in
me, which produces the miracle of redemption in others, through the
power of God. The way fruit remains firm is through prayer, but
remember that it is prayer based on the agony of Christ in redemption,
not on my own agony. We must go to God as His child, because only a
child gets his prayers answered; a “wise” man does not (see Matthew
11:25).

Prayer is the battle, and it makes no difference where you are.
However God may engineer your circumstances, your duty is to pray.
Never allow yourself this thought, “I am of no use where I am,”
because you certainly cannot be used where you have not yet been
placed. Wherever God has placed you and whatever your circumstances,
you should pray, continually offering up prayers to Him. And He
promises, “Whatever you ask in My name, that I will do…” (John 14:13).
Yet we refuse to pray unless it thrills or excites us, which is the
most intense form of spiritual selfishness. We must learn to work
according to God’s direction, and He says to pray. “Pray the Lord of
the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest” (Matthew 9:38).

There is nothing thrilling about a laboring person’s work, but it is
the laboring person who makes the ideas of the genius possible. And it
is the laboring saint who makes the ideas of his Master possible. When
you labor at prayer, from God’s perspective there are always results.
What an astonishment it will be to see, once the veil is finally
lifted, all the souls that have been reaped by you, simply because you
have been in the habit of taking your orders from Jesus Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

