http://utmost.org/the-service-of-passionate-devotion/

The Service of Passionate Devotion

…do you love Me?…Tend My sheep. —John 21:16

Jesus did not say to make converts to your way of thinking, but He
said to look after His sheep, to see that they get nourished in the
knowledge of Him. We consider what we do in the way of Christian work
as service, yet Jesus Christ calls service to be what we are to Him,
not what we do for Him. Discipleship is based solely on devotion to
Jesus Christ, not on following after a particular belief or doctrine.
“If anyone comes to Me and does not hate…, he cannot be My disciple”
(Luke 14:26). In this verse, there is no argument and no pressure from
Jesus to follow Him; He is simply saying, in effect, “If you want to
be My disciple, you must be devoted solely to Me.” A person touched by
the Spirit of God suddenly says, “Now I see who Jesus is!”— that is
the source of devotion.

Today we have substituted doctrinal belief for personal belief, and
that is why so many people are devoted to causes and so few are
devoted to Jesus Christ. People do not really want to be devoted to
Jesus, but only to the cause He started. Jesus Christ is deeply
offensive to the educated minds of today, to those who only want Him
to be their Friend, and who are unwilling to accept Him in any other
way. Our Lord’s primary obedience was to the will of His Father, not
to the needs of people— the saving of people was the natural outcome
of His obedience to the Father. If I am devoted solely to the cause of
humanity, I will soon be exhausted and come to the point where my love
will waver and stumble. But if I love Jesus Christ personally and
passionately, I can serve humanity, even though people may treat me
like a “doormat.” The secret of a disciple’s life is devotion to Jesus
Christ, and the characteristic of that life is its seeming
insignificance and its meekness. Yet it is like a grain of wheat that
“falls into the ground and dies”— it will spring up and change the
entire landscape (John 12:24).

By Oswald Chambers

