http://utmost.org/wrestling-before-god/

Wrestling Before God

Take up the whole armor of God…praying always… —Ephesians 6:13,18

You must learn to wrestle against the things that hinder your
communication with God, and wrestle in prayer for other people; but to
wrestle with God in prayer is unscriptural. If you ever do wrestle
with God, you will be crippled for the rest of your life. If you grab
hold of God and wrestle with Him, as Jacob did, simply because He is
working in a way that doesn’t meet with your approval, you force Him
to put you out of joint (see Genesis 32:24-25). Don’t become a cripple
by wrestling with the ways of God, but be someone who wrestles before
God with the things of this world, because “we are more than
conquerors through Him…” (Romans 8:37). Wrestling before God makes an
impact in His kingdom. If you ask me to pray for you, and I am not
complete in Christ, my prayer accomplishes nothing. But if I am
complete in Christ, my prayer brings victory all the time. Prayer is
effective only when there is completeness— “take up the whole armor of
God….”

Always make a distinction between God’s perfect will and His
permissive will, which He uses to accomplish His divine purpose for
our lives. God’s perfect will is unchangeable. It is with His
permissive will, or the various things that He allows into our lives,
that we must wrestle before Him. It is our reaction to these things
allowed by His permissive will that enables us to come to the point of
seeing His perfect will for us. “We know that all things work together
for good to those who love God…” (Romans 8:28)— to those who remain
true to God’s perfect will— His calling in Christ Jesus. God’s
permissive will is the testing He uses to reveal His true sons and
daughters. We should not be spineless and automatically say, “Yes, it
is the Lord’s will.” We don’t have to fight or wrestle with God, but
we must wrestle before God with things. Beware of lazily giving up.
Instead, put up a glorious fight and you will find yourself empowered
with His strength.

By Oswald Chambers

