http://utmost.org/don%E2%80%99t-hurt-the-lord/

Don’t Hurt the Lord

Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known Me, Philip?
—John 14:9

Our Lord must be repeatedly astounded at us— astounded at how “un-
simple” we are. It is our own opinions that make us dense and slow to
understand, but when we are simple we are never dense; we have
discernment all the time. Philip expected the future revelation of a
tremendous mystery, but not in Jesus, the Person he thought he already
knew. The mystery of God is not in what is going to be— it is now,
though we look for it to be revealed in the future in some
overwhelming, momentous event. We have no reluctance to obey Jesus,
but it is highly probable that we are hurting Him by what we ask—
“Lord, show us the Father…” (John 14:8). His response immediately
comes back to us as He says, “Can’t you see Him? He is always right
here or He is nowhere to be found.” We look for God to exhibit Himself
to His children, but God only exhibits Himself in His children. And
while others see the evidence, the child of God does not. We want to
be fully aware of what God is doing in us, but we cannot have complete
awareness and expect to remain reasonable or balanced in our
expectations of Him. If all we are asking God to give us is
experiences, and the awareness of those experiences is blocking our
way, we hurt the Lord. The very questions we ask hurt Jesus, because
they are not the questions of a child.

“Let not your heart be troubled…” (14:1, 27). Am I then hurting Jesus
by allowing my heart to be troubled? If I believe in Jesus and His
attributes, am I living up to my belief? Am I allowing anything to
disturb my heart, or am I allowing any questions to come in which are
unsound or unbalanced? I have to get to the point of the absolute and
unquestionable relationship that takes everything exactly as it comes
from Him. God never guides us at some time in the future, but always
here and now. Realize that the Lord is here now, and the freedom you
receive is immediate.

By Oswald Chambers

