https://utmost.org/the-key-to-the-missionarys-message/

The Key to the Missionary’s Message

He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but
also for the whole world. —1 John 2:2

The key to the missionary’s message is the propitiation of Christ
Jesus— His sacrifice for us that completely satisfied the wrath of
God. Look at any other aspect of Christ’s work, whether it is healing,
saving, or sanctifying, and you will see that there is nothing
limitless about those. But— “The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of
the world!”— that is limitless (John 1:29). The missionary’s message
is the limitless importance of Jesus Christ as the propitiation for
our sins, and a missionary is someone who is immersed in the truth of
that revelation.

The real key to the missionary’s message is the “remissionary” aspect
of Christ’s life, not His kindness, His goodness, or even His
revealing of the fatherhood of God to us. “…repentance and remission
of sins should be preached…to all nations…” (Luke 24:47). The greatest
message of limitless importance is that “He Himself is the
propitiation for our sins….” The missionary’s message is not
nationalistic, favoring nations or individuals; it is “for the whole
world.” When the Holy Spirit comes into me, He does not consider my
partialities or preferences; He simply brings me into oneness with the
Lord Jesus.

A missionary is someone who is bound by marriage to the stated mission
and purpose of his Lord and Master. He is not to proclaim his own
point of view, but is only to proclaim “the Lamb of God.” It is easier
to belong to a faction that simply tells what Jesus Christ has done
for me, and easier to become a devotee of divine healing, or of a
special type of sanctification, or of the baptism of the Holy Spirit.
But Paul did not say, “Woe is me if I do not preach what Christ has
done for me,” but, “…woe is me if I do not preach the gospel!” (1
Corinthians 9:16). And this is the gospel— “the Lamb of God who takes
away the sin of the world!”

By Oswald Chambers

