http://utmost.org/are-you-discouraged-or-devoted/

Are You Discouraged or Devoted?

…Jesus…said to him, "You still lack one thing. Sell all that you
have…and come, follow Me." But when he heard this, he became very
sorrowful, for he was very rich. —Luke 18:22-23

Have you ever heard the Master say something very difficult to you? If
you haven’t, I question whether you have ever heard Him say anything
at all. Jesus says a tremendous amount to us that we listen to, but do
not actually hear. And once we do hear Him, His words are harsh and
unyielding.

Jesus did not show the least concern that this rich young ruler should
do what He told him, nor did Jesus make any attempt to keep this man
with Him. He simply said to him, “Sell all that you have…and come,
follow Me.” Our Lord never pleaded with him; He never tried to lure
him— He simply spoke the strictest words that human ears have ever
heard, and then left him alone.

Have I ever heard Jesus say something difficult and unyielding to me?
Has He said something personally to me to which I have deliberately
listened— not something I can explain for the sake of others, but
something I have heard Him say directly to me? This man understood
what Jesus said. He heard it clearly, realizing the full impact of its
meaning, and it broke his heart. He did not go away as a defiant
person, but as one who was sorrowful and discouraged. He had come to
Jesus on fire with zeal and determination, but the words of Jesus
simply froze him. Instead of producing enthusiastic devotion to Jesus,
they produced heartbreaking discouragement. And Jesus did not go after
him, but let him go. Our Lord knows perfectly well that once His word
is truly heard, it will bear fruit sooner or later. What is so
terrible is that some of us prevent His words from bearing fruit in
our present life. I wonder what we will say when we finally make up
our minds to be devoted to Him on that particular point? One thing is
certain— He will never throw our past failures back in our faces.

By Oswald Chambers

