http://utmost.org/the-holy-suffering-of-the-saint/

The Holy Suffering of the Saint

Let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls
to Him in doing good… —1 Peter 4:19

Choosing to suffer means that there must be something wrong with you,
but choosing God’s will— even if it means you will suffer— is
something very different. No normal, healthy saint ever chooses
suffering; he simply chooses God’s will, just as Jesus did, whether it
means suffering or not. And no saint should ever dare to interfere
with the lesson of suffering being taught in another saint’s life.

The saint who satisfies the heart of Jesus will make other saints
strong and mature for God. But the people used to strengthen us are
never those who sympathize with us; in fact, we are hindered by those
who give us their sympathy, because sympathy only serves to weaken us.
No one better understands a saint than the saint who is as close and
as intimate with Jesus as possible. If we accept the sympathy of
another saint, our spontaneous feeling is, “God is dealing too harshly
with me and making my life too difficult.” That is why Jesus said that
self-pity was of the devil (see Matthew 16:21-23). We must be merciful
to God’s reputation. It is easy for us to tarnish God’s character
because He never argues back; He never tries to defend or vindicate
Himself. Beware of thinking that Jesus needed sympathy during His life
on earth. He refused the sympathy of people because in His great
wisdom He knew that no one on earth understood His purpose
(see Matthew 16:23). He accepted only the sympathy of His Father and
the angels (see Luke 15:10).

Look at God’s incredible waste of His saints, according to the world’s
judgment. God seems to plant His saints in the most useless places.
And then we say, “God intends for me to be here because I am so useful
to Him.” Yet Jesus never measured His life by how or where He was of
the greatest use. God places His saints where they will bring the most
glory to Him, and we are totally incapable of judging where that may
be.

By Oswald Chambers

