http://utmost.org/the-teaching-of-adversity/

The Teaching of Adversity

In the world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have
overcome the world. —John 16:33

The typical view of the Christian life is that it means being
delivered from all adversity. But it actually means being delivered in
adversity, which is something very different. “He who dwells in the
secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the
Almighty. No evil shall befall you, nor shall any plague come near
your dwelling…” (Psalm 91:1,10)— the place where you are at one with
God.

If you are a child of God, you will certainly encounter adversities,
but Jesus says you should not be surprised when they come. “In the
world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome
the world.” He is saying, “There is nothing for you to fear.” The same
people who refused to talk about their adversities before they were
saved often complain and worry after being born again because they
have the wrong idea of what it means to live the life of a saint.

God does not give us overcoming life— He gives us life as we overcome.
The strain of life is what builds our strength. If there is no strain,
there will be no strength. Are you asking God to give you life,
liberty, and joy? He cannot, unless you are willing to accept the
strain. And once you face the strain, you will immediately get the
strength. Overcome your own timidity and take the first step. Then God
will give you nourishment— “To him who overcomes I will give to eat
from the tree of life…” (Revelation 2:7). If you completely give of
yourself physically, you become exhausted. But when you give of
yourself spiritually, you get more strength. God never gives us
strength for tomorrow, or for the next hour, but only for the strain
of the moment. Our temptation is to face adversities from the
standpoint of our own common sense. But a saint can “be of good cheer”
even when seemingly defeated by adversities, because victory is
absurdly impossible to everyone, except God.

By Oswald Chambers

