http://utmost.org/building-for-eternity/

Building For Eternity

Which of you, intending to build a tower, does not sit down first and
count the cost, whether he has enough to finish it… —Luke 14:28

Our Lord was not referring here to a cost which we have to count, but
to a cost which He has already counted. The cost was those thirty
years in Nazareth, those three years of popularity, scandal, and
hatred, the unfathomable agony He experienced in Gethsemane, and the
assault upon Him at Calvary— the central point upon which all of time
and eternity turn. Jesus Christ has counted the cost. In the final
analysis, people are not going to laugh at Him and say, “This man
began to build and was not able to finish” (Luke 14:30).

The conditions of discipleship given to us by our Lord in verses 26,
27, and 33 mean that the men and women He is going to use in His
mighty building enterprises are those in whom He has done everything.
“If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother, wife
and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he
cannot be My disciple ” (Luke 14:26). This verse teaches us that the
only men and women our Lord will use in His building enterprises are
those who love Him personally, passionately, and with great devotion—
those who have a love for Him that goes far beyond any of the closest
relationships on earth. The conditions are strict, but they are
glorious.

All that we build is going to be inspected by God. When God inspects
us with His searching and refining fire, will He detect that we have
built enterprises of our own on the foundation of Jesus? (see 1
Corinthians 3:10-15). We are living in a time of tremendous
enterprises, a time when we are trying to work for God, and that is
where the trap is. Profoundly speaking, we can never work for God.
Jesus, as the Master Builder, takes us over so that He may direct and
control us completely for His enterprises and His building plans; and
no one has any right to demand where he will be put to work.

By Oswald Chambers

