http://utmost.org/the-impoverished-ministry-of-jesus/

The Impoverished Ministry of Jesus

Where then do You get that living water? —John 4:11

“The well is deep” — and even a great deal deeper than the Samaritan
woman knew! (John 4:11). Think of the depths of human nature and human
life; think of the depth of the “wells” in you. Have you been
limiting, or impoverishing, the ministry of Jesus to the point that He
is unable to work in your life? Suppose that you have a deep “well” of
hurt and trouble inside your heart, and Jesus comes and says to you,
“Let not your heart be troubled…” (John 14:1). Would your response be
to shrug your shoulders and say, “But, Lord, the well is too deep, and
even You can’t draw up quietness and comfort out of it.” Actually,
that is correct. Jesus doesn’t bring anything up from the wells of
human nature— He brings them down from above. We limit the Holy One of
Israel by remembering only what we have allowed Him to do for us in
the past, and also by saying, “Of course, I cannot expect God to do
this particular thing.” The thing that approaches the very limits of
His power is the very thing we as disciples of Jesus ought to believe
He will do. We impoverish and weaken His ministry in us the moment we
forget He is almighty. The impoverishment is in us, not in Him. We
will come to Jesus for Him to be our comforter or our sympathizer, but
we refrain from approaching Him as our Almighty God.

The reason some of us are such poor examples of Christianity is that
we have failed to recognize that Christ is almighty. We have Christian
attributes and experiences, but there is no abandonment or surrender
to Jesus Christ. When we get into difficult circumstances, we
impoverish His ministry by saying, “Of course, He can’t do anything
about this.” We struggle to reach the bottom of our own well, trying
to get water for ourselves. Beware of sitting back, and saying, “It
can’t be done.” You will know it can be done if you will look to
Jesus. The well of your incompleteness runs deep, but make the effort
to look away from yourself and to look toward Him.

By Oswald Chambers

