http://utmost.org/the-faith-to-persevere/

The Faith to Persevere

Because you have kept My command to persevere… —Revelation 3:10

Perseverance means more than endurance— more than simply holding on
until the end. A saint’s life is in the hands of God like a bow and
arrow in the hands of an archer. God is aiming at something the saint
cannot see, but our Lord continues to stretch and strain, and every
once in a while the saint says, “I can’t take any more.” Yet God pays
no attention; He goes on stretching until His purpose is in sight, and
then He lets the arrow fly. Entrust yourself to God’s hands. Is there
something in your life for which you need perseverance right now?
Maintain your intimate relationship with Jesus Christ through the
perseverance of faith. Proclaim as Job did, “Though He slay me, yet
will I trust Him” (Job 13:15).

Faith is not some weak and pitiful emotion, but is strong and vigorous
confidence built on the fact that God is holy love. And even though
you cannot see Him right now and cannot understand what He is doing,
you know Him. Disaster occurs in your life when you lack the mental
composure that comes from establishing yourself on the eternal truth
that God is holy love. Faith is the supreme effort of your life—
throwing yourself with abandon and total confidence upon God.

God ventured His all in Jesus Christ to save us, and now He wants us
to venture our all with total abandoned confidence in Him. There are
areas in our lives where that faith has not worked in us as yet—
places still untouched by the life of God. There were none of those
places in Jesus Christ’s life, and there are to be none in ours. Jesus
prayed, “This is eternal life, that they may know You…” (John 17:3).
The real meaning of eternal life is a life that can face anything it
has to face without wavering. If we will take this view, life will
become one great romance— a glorious opportunity of seeing wonderful
things all the time. God is disciplining us to get us into this
central place of power.

By Oswald Chambers

