http://utmost.org/will-you-lay-down-your-life/

“Will You Lay Down Your Life?”

Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one’s life for his
friends….I have called you friends… —John 15:13, 15

Jesus does not ask me to die for Him, but to lay down my life for Him.
Peter said to the Lord, “I will lay down my life for Your sake,” and
he meant it (John 13:37). He had a magnificent sense of the heroic.
For us to be incapable of making this same statement Peter made would
be a bad thing— our sense of duty is only fully realized through our
sense of heroism. Has the Lord ever asked you, “Will you lay down your
life for My sake?” (John 13:38). It is much easier to die than to lay
down your life day in and day out with the sense of the high calling
of God. We are not made for the bright-shining moments of life, but we
have to walk in the light of them in our everyday ways. There was only
one bright-shining moment in the life of Jesus, and that was on the
Mount of Transfiguration. It was there that He emptied Himself of His
glory for the second time, and then came down into the demon-possessed
valley (seeMark 9:1-29). For thirty-three years Jesus laid down His
life to do the will of His Father. “By this we know love, because He
laid down His life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for
the brethren” (1 John 3:16). Yet it is contrary to our human nature to
do so.

If I am a friend of Jesus, I must deliberately and carefully lay down
my life for Him. It is a difficult thing to do, and thank God that it
is. Salvation is easy for us, because it cost God so much. But the
exhibiting of salvation in my life is difficult. God saves a person,
fills him with the Holy Spirit, and then says, in effect, “Now you
work it out in your life, and be faithful to Me, even though the
nature of everything around you is to cause you to be unfaithful.” And
Jesus says to us, “…I have called you friends….” Remain faithful to
your Friend, and remember that His honor is at stake in your bodily
life.

By Oswald Chambers

