http://utmost.org/do-not-quench-the-spirit/

“Do Not Quench the Spirit”

Do not quench the Spirit. —1 Thessalonians 5:19

The voice of the Spirit of God is as gentle as a summer breeze— so
gentle that unless you are living in complete fellowship and oneness
with God, you will never hear it. The sense of warning and restraint
that the Spirit gives comes to us in the most amazingly gentle ways.
And if you are not sensitive enough to detect His voice, you will
quench it, and your spiritual life will be impaired. This sense of
restraint will always come as a “still small voice” (1 Kings 19:12),
so faint that no one except a saint of God will notice it.

Beware if in sharing your personal testimony you continually have to
look back, saying, “Once, a number of years ago, I was saved.” If you
have put your “hand to the plow” and are walking in the light, there
is no “looking back”— the past is instilled into the present wonder of
fellowship and oneness with God (Luke 9:62 ; also see 1 John 1:6-7).
If you get out of the light, you become a sentimental Christian, and
live only on your memories, and your testimony will have a hard
metallic ring to it. Beware of trying to cover up your present refusal
to “walk in the light” by recalling your past experiences when you did
“walk in the light” (1 John 1:7). When-ever the Spirit gives you that
sense of restraint, call a halt and make things right, or else you
will go on quenching and grieving Him without even knowing it.

Suppose God brings you to a crisis and you almost endure it, but not
completely. He will engineer the crisis again, but this time some of
the intensity will be lost. You will have less discernment and more
humiliation at having disobeyed. If you continue to grieve His Spirit,
there will come a time when that crisis cannot be repeated, because
you have totally quenched Him. But if you will go on through the
crisis, your life will become a hymn of praise to God. Never become
attached to anything that continues to hurt God. For you to be free of
it, God must be allowed to hurt whatever it may be.

By Oswald Chambers

