https://utmost.org/the-discipline-of-dismay/

The Discipline of Dismay

As they followed they were afraid. —Mark 10:32

At the beginning of our life with Jesus Christ, we were sure we knew
all there was to know about following Him. It was a delight to forsake
everything else and to throw ourselves before Him in a fearless
statement of love. But now we are not quite so sure. Jesus is far
ahead of us and is beginning to seem different and unfamiliar— “Jesus
was going before them; and they were amazed” (Mark 10:32).

There is an aspect of Jesus that chills even a disciple’s heart to its
depth and makes his entire spiritual life gasp for air. This unusual
Person with His face set “like a flint” (Isaiah 50:7) is walking with
great determination ahead of me, and He strikes terror right through
me. He no longer seems to be my Counselor and Friend and has a point
of view about which I know nothing. All I can do is stand and stare at
Him in amazement. At first I was confident that I understood Him, but
now I am not so sure. I begin to realize that there is a distance
between Jesus and me and I can no longer be intimate with Him. I have
no idea where He is going, and the goal has become strangely distant.

Jesus Christ had to understand fully every sin and sorrow that human
beings could experience, and that is what makes Him seem unfamiliar.
When we see this aspect of Him, we realize we really don’t know Him.
We don’t recognize even one characteristic of His life, and we don’t
know how to begin to follow Him. He is far ahead of us, a Leader who
seems totally unfamiliar, and we have no friendship with Him.

The discipline of dismay is an essential lesson which a disciple must
learn. The danger is that we tend to look back on our times of
obedience and on our past sacrifices to God in an effort to keep our
enthusiasm for Him strong (see Isaiah 50:10-11). But when the darkness
of dismay comes, endure until it is over, because out of it will come
the ability to follow Jesus truly, which brings inexpressibly
wonderful joy.

By Oswald Chambers

