http://utmost.org/the-place-of-ministry/

The Place of Ministry

He said to them, "This kind [of unclean spirit] can come out by
nothing but prayer and fasting." —Mark 9:29

“His disciples asked Him privately, ‘Why could we not cast it out?’ ”
(Mark 9:28). The answer lies in a personal relationship with Jesus
Christ. “This kind can come out by nothing but” concentrating on Him,
and then doubling and redoubling that concentration on Him. We can
remain powerless forever, as the disciples were in this situation, by
trying to do God’s work without concentrating on His power, and by
following instead the ideas that we draw from our own nature. We
actually slander and dishonor God by our very eagerness to serve Him
without knowing Him.

When you are brought face to face with a difficult situation and
nothing happens externally, you can still know that freedom and
release will be given because of your continued concentration on Jesus
Christ. Your duty in service and ministry is to see that there is
nothing between Jesus and yourself. Is there anything between you and
Jesus even now? If there is, you must get through it, not by ignoring
it as an irritation, or by going up and over it, but by facing it and
getting through it into the presence of Jesus Christ. Then that very
problem itself, and all that you have been through in connection with
it, will glorify Jesus Christ in a way that you will never know until
you see Him face to face.

We must be able to “mount up with wings like eagles” (Isaiah 40:31),
but we must also know how to come down. The power of the saint lies in
the coming down and in the living that is done in the valley. Paul
said, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me”
(Philippians 4:13) and what he was referring to were mostly
humiliating things. And yet it is in our power to refuse to be
humiliated and to say, “No, thank you, I much prefer to be on the
mountaintop with God.” Can I face things as they actually are in the
light of the reality of Jesus Christ, or do things as they really are
destroy my faith in Him, and put me into a panic?

By Oswald Chambers

