http://utmost.org/sanctification-1/

Sanctification (1)

This is the will of God, your sanctification… —1 Thessalonians 4:3

The Death Side. In sanctification God has to deal with us on the death
side as well as on the life side. Sanctification requires our coming
to the place of death, but many of us spend so much time there that we
become morbid. There is always a tremendous battle before
sanctification is realized— something within us pushing with
resentment against the demands of Christ. When the Holy Spirit begins
to show us what sanctification means, the struggle starts immediately.
Jesus said, “If anyone comes to Me and does not hate…his own life…he
cannot be My disciple” (Luke 14:26).

In the process of sanctification, the Spirit of God will strip me down
until there is nothing left but myself, and that is the place of
death. Am I willing to be myself and nothing more? Am I willing to
have no friends, no father, no brother, and no self-interest— simply
to be ready for death? That is the condition required for
sanctification. No wonder Jesus said, “I did not come to bring peace
but a sword” (Matthew 10:34). This is where the battle comes, and
where so many of us falter. We refuse to be identified with the death
of Jesus Christ on this point. We say, “But this is so strict. Surely
He does not require that of me.” Our Lord is strict, and He does
require that of us.

Am I willing to reduce myself down to simply “me”? Am I determined
enough to strip myself of all that my friends think of me, and all
that I think of myself? Am I willing and determined to hand over my
simple naked self to God? Once I am, He will immediately sanctify me
completely, and my life will be free from being determined and
persistent toward anything except God (see 1 Thessalonians 5:23-24).

When I pray, “Lord, show me what sanctification means for me,” He will
show me. It means being made one with Jesus. Sanctification is not
something Jesus puts in me— it is Himself in me (see 1 Corinthians
1:30).

By Oswald Chambers

