http://utmost.org/gracious-uncertainty/

Gracious Uncertainty

…it has not yet been revealed what we shall be… —1 John 3:2

Our natural inclination is to be so precise– trying always to forecast
accurately what will happen next– that we look upon uncertainty as a
bad thing. We think that we must reach some predetermined goal, but
that is not the nature of the spiritual life. The nature of the
spiritual life is that we are certain in our uncertainty.
Consequently, we do not put down roots. Our common sense says, “Well,
what if I were in that circumstance?” We cannot presume to see
ourselves in any circumstance in which we have never been.

Certainty is the mark of the commonsense life– gracious uncertainty is
the mark of the spiritual life. To be certain of God means that we are
uncertain in all our ways, not knowing what tomorrow may bring. This
is generally expressed with a sigh of sadness, but it should be an
expression of breathless expectation. We are uncertain of the next
step, but we are certain of God. As soon as we abandon ourselves to
God and do the task He has placed closest to us, He begins to fill our
lives with surprises. When we become simply a promoter or a defender
of a particular belief, something within us dies. That is not
believing God– it is only believing our belief about Him. Jesus said,
“…unless you…become as little children…” (Matthew 18:3). The spiritual
life is the life of a child. We are not uncertain of God, just
uncertain of what He is going to do next. If our certainty is only in
our beliefs, we develop a sense of self-righteousness, become overly
critical, and are limited by the view that our beliefs are complete
and settled. But when we have the right relationship with God, life is
full of spontaneous, joyful uncertainty and expectancy. Jesus said,
“…believe also in Me” (John 14:1), not, “Believe certain things about
Me”. Leave everything to Him and it will be gloriously and graciously
uncertain how He will come in– but you can be certain that He will
come. Remain faithful to Him.

By Oswald Chambers

