http://utmost.org/receiving-yourself-in-the-fires-of-sorrow/

Receiving Yourself in the Fires of Sorrow

…what shall I say? "Father, save Me from this hour"? But for this
purpose I came to this hour. "Father, glorify Your name." —John
12:27-28

As a saint of God, my attitude toward sorrow and difficulty should not
be to ask that they be prevented, but to ask that God protect me so
that I may remain what He created me to be, in spite of all my fires
of sorrow. Our Lord received Himself, accepting His position and
realizing His purpose, in the midst of the fire of sorrow. He was
saved not from the hour, but out of the hour.

We say that there ought to be no sorrow, but there is sorrow, and we
have to accept and receive ourselves in its fires. If we try to evade
sorrow, refusing to deal with it, we are foolish. Sorrow is one of the
biggest facts in life, and there is no use in saying it should not be.
Sin, sorrow, and suffering are, and it is not for us to say that God
has made a mistake in allowing them.

Sorrow removes a great deal of a person’s shallowness, but it does not
always make that person better. Suffering either gives me to myself or
it destroys me. You cannot find or receive yourself through success,
because you lose your head over pride. And you cannot receive yourself
through the monotony of your daily life, because you give in to
complaining. The only way to find yourself is in the fires of sorrow.
Why it should be this way is immaterial. The fact is that it is true
in the Scriptures and in human experience. You can always recognize
who has been through the fires of sorrow and received himself, and you
know that you can go to him in your moment of trouble and find that he
has plenty of time for you. But if a person has not been through the
fires of sorrow, he is apt to be contemptuous, having no respect or
time for you, only turning you away. If you will receive yourself in
the fires of sorrow, God will make you nourishment for other people.

By Oswald Chambers

