https://utmost.org/nothing-of-the-old-life/

Nothing of the Old Life!

If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed
away; behold, all things have become new. —2 Corinthians 5:17

Our Lord never tolerates our prejudices— He is directly opposed to
them and puts them to death. We tend to think that God has some
special interest in our particular prejudices, and are very sure that
He will never deal with us as He has to deal with others. We even say
to ourselves, “God has to deal with other people in a very strict way,
but of course He knows that my prejudices are all right.” But we must
learn that God accepts nothing of the old life! Instead of being on
the side of our prejudices, He is deliberately removing them from us.
It is part of our moral education to see our prejudices put to death
by His providence, and to watch how He does it. God pays no respect to
anything we bring to Him. There is only one thing God wants of us, and
that is our unconditional surrender.

When we are born again, the Holy Spirit begins to work His new
creation in us, and there will come a time when there is nothing
remaining of the old life. Our old gloomy outlook disappears, as does
our old attitude toward things, and “all things are of God” (2
Corinthians 5:18). How are we going to get a life that has no lust, no
self-interest, and is not sensitive to the ridicule of others? How
will we have the type of love that “is kind…is not provoked, [and]
thinks no evil”? (1 Corinthians 13:4-5). The only way is by allowing
nothing of the old life to remain, and by having only simple, perfect
trust in God— such a trust that we no longer want God’s blessings, but
only want God Himself. Have we come to the point where God can
withdraw His blessings from us without our trust in Him being
affected? Once we truly see God at work, we will never be concerned
again about the things that happen, because we are actually trusting
in our Father in heaven, whom the world cannot see.

By Oswald Chambers

