https://utmost.org/the-key-to-the-missionarys-work/

The Key to the Missionary’s Work

Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, "All authority has been given to
Me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the
nations…" —Matthew 28:18-19

The key to the missionary’s work is the authority of Jesus Christ, not
the needs of the lost. We are inclined to look on our Lord as one who
assists us in our endeavors for God. Yet our Lord places Himself as
the absolute sovereign and supreme Lord over His disciples. He does
not say that the lost will never be saved if we don’t go— He simply
says, “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations….” He says,
“Go on the basis of the revealed truth of My sovereignty, teaching and
preaching out of your living experience of Me.”

“Then the eleven disciples went…to the mountain which Jesus had
appointed for them” (Matthew 28:16). If I want to know the universal
sovereignty of Christ, I must know Him myself. I must take time to
worship the One whose name I bear. Jesus says, “Come to Me…”— that is
the place to meet Jesus— “all you who labor and are heavy laden…”
(Matthew 11:28)— and how many missionaries are! We completely dismiss
these wonderful words of the universal Sovereign of the world, but
they are the words of Jesus to His disciples meant for here and now.

“Go therefore….” To “go” simply means to live. Acts 1:8 is the
description of how to go. Jesus did not say in this verse, “Go into
Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria,” but, “…you shall be witnesses to Me in
[all these places].” He takes upon Himself the work of sending us.

“If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you…” (John 15:7)— that is
the way to keep going. Where we are placed is then a matter of
indifference to us, because God sovereignly engineers our goings.

“None of these things move me; nor do I count my life dear to myself,
so that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I
received from the Lord Jesus…” (Acts 20:24). That is how to keep going
until we are gone from this life.

By Oswald Chambers

