http://utmost.org/redemption%E2%80%94-creating-the-need-it-satisfies/

Redemption— Creating the Need it Satisfies

The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for
they are foolishness to him… —1 Corinthians 2:14

The gospel of God creates the sense of need for the gospel. Is the
gospel hidden to those who are servants already? No, Paul said, “But
even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing,
whose minds the god of this age has blinded, who do not believe…” (2
Corinthians 4:3-4). The majority of people think of themselves as
being completely moral, and have no sense of need for the gospel. It
is God who creates this sense of need in a human being, but that
person remains totally unaware of his need until God makes Himself
evident. Jesus said, “Ask, and it will be given to you…” (Matthew
7:7). But God cannot give until a man asks. It is not that He wants to
withhold something from us, but that is the plan He has established
for the way of redemption. Through our asking, God puts His process in
motion, creating something in us that was nonexistent until we asked.
The inner reality of redemption is that it creates all the time. And
as redemption creates the life of God in us, it also creates the
things which belong to that life. The only thing that can possibly
satisfy the need is what created the need. This is the meaning of
redemption— it creates and it satisfies.

Jesus said, “And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all
peoples to Myself” (John 12:32). When we preach our own experiences,
people may be interested, but it awakens no real sense of need. But
once Jesus Christ is “lifted up,” the Spirit of God creates an
awareness of the need for Him. The creative power of the redemption of
God works in the souls of men only through the preaching of the
gospel. It is never the sharing of personal experiences that saves
people, but the truth of redemption. “The words that I speak to you
are spirit, and they are life” (John 6:63).

By Oswald Chambers

