http://utmost.org/the-delight-of-sacrifice/

The Delight of Sacrifice

I will very gladly spend and be spent for your souls… —2 Corinthians
12:15

Once “the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy
Spirit,” we deliberately begin to identify ourselves with Jesus
Christ’s interests and purposes in others’ lives (Romans 5:5). And
Jesus has an interest in every individual person. We have no right in
Christian service to be guided by our own interests and desires. In
fact, this is one of the greatest tests of our relationship with Jesus
Christ. The delight of sacrifice is that I lay down my life for my
Friend, Jesus (see John 15:13). I don’t throw my life away, but I
willingly and deliberately lay it down for Him and His interests in
other people. And I do this for no cause or purpose of my own. Paul
spent his life for only one purpose— that he might win people to Jesus
Christ. Paul always attracted people to his Lord, but never to
himself. He said, “I have become all things to all men, that I might
by all means save some” (1 Corinthians 9:22).

When someone thinks that to develop a holy life he must always be
alone with God, he is no longer of any use to others. This is like
putting himself on a pedestal and isolating himself from the rest of
society. Paul was a holy person, but wherever he went Jesus Christ was
always allowed to help Himself to his life. Many of us are interested
only in our own goals, and Jesus cannot help Himself to our lives. But
if we are totally surrendered to Him, we have no goals of our own to
serve. Paul said that he knew how to be a “doormat” without resenting
it, because the motivation of his life was devotion to Jesus. We tend
to be devoted, not to Jesus Christ, but to the things which allow us
more spiritual freedom than total surrender to Him would allow.
Freedom was not Paul’s motive at all. In fact, he stated, “I could
wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren…” (Romans
9:3). Had Paul lost his ability to reason? Not at all! For someone who
is in love, this is not an overstatement. And Paul was in love with
Jesus Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

