https://utmost.org/friendship-with-god/

Friendship with God

Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing…? —Genesis 18:17

The Delights of His Friendship. Genesis 18 brings out the delight of
true friendship with God, as compared with simply feeling His presence
occasionally in prayer. This friendship means being so intimately in
touch with God that you never even need to ask Him to show you His
will. It is evidence of a level of intimacy which confirms that you
are nearing the final stage of your discipline in the life of faith.
When you have a right-standing relationship with God, you have a life
of freedom, liberty, and delight; you are God’s will. And all of your
commonsense decisions are actually His will for you, unless you sense
a feeling of restraint brought on by a check in your spirit. You are
free to make decisions in the light of a perfect and delightful
friendship with God, knowing that if your decisions are wrong He will
lovingly produce that sense of restraint. Once he does, you must stop
immediately.

The Difficulties of His Friendship. Why did Abraham stop praying when
he did? He stopped because he still was lacking the level of intimacy
in his relationship with God, which would enable him boldly to
continue on with the Lord in prayer until his desire was granted.
Whenever we stop short of our true desire in prayer and say, “Well, I
don’t know, maybe this is not God’s will,” then we still have another
level to go. It shows that we are not as intimately acquainted with
God as Jesus was, and as Jesus would have us to be— “…that they may be
one just as We are one…” (John 17:22). Think of the last thing you
prayed about— were you devoted to your desire or to God? Was your
determination to get some gift of the Spirit for yourself or to get to
God? “For your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask
Him” (Matthew 6:8). The reason for asking is so you may get to know
God better. “Delight yourself also in the Lord, and He shall give you
the desires of your heart” (Psalm 37:4). We should keep praying to get
a perfect understanding of God Himself.

By Oswald Chambers

