http://utmost.org/the-teaching-of-disillusionment/

The Teaching of Disillusionment

Jesus did not commit Himself to them…, for He knew what was in man.
—John 2:24-25

Disillusionment means having no more misconceptions, false
impressions, and false judgments in life; it means being free from
these deceptions. However, though no longer deceived, our experience
of disillusionment may actually leave us cynical and overly critical
in our judgment of others. But the disillusionment that comes from God
brings us to the point where we see people as they really are, yet
without any cynicism or any stinging and bitter criticism. Many of the
things in life that inflict the greatest injury, grief, or pain, stem
from the fact that we suffer from illusions. We are not true to one
another as facts, seeing each other as we really are; we are only true
to our misconceived ideas of one another. According to our thinking,
everything is either delightful and good, or it is evil, malicious,
and cowardly.

Refusing to be disillusioned is the cause of much of the suffering of
human life. And this is how that suffering happens— if we love
someone, but do not love God, we demand total perfection and
righteousness from that person, and when we do not get it we become
cruel and vindictive; yet we are demanding of a human being something
which he or she cannot possibly give. There is only one Being who can
completely satisfy to the absolute depth of the hurting human heart,
and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lord is so obviously
uncompromising with regard to every human relationship because He
knows that every relationship that is not based on faithfulness to
Himself will end in disaster. Our Lord trusted no one, and never
placed His faith in people, yet He was never suspicious or bitter. Our
Lord’s confidence in God, and in what God’s grace could do for anyone,
was so perfect that He never despaired, never giving up hope for any
person. If our trust is placed in human beings, we will end up
despairing of everyone.

By Oswald Chambers

