http://utmost.org/the-destitution-of-service/

The Destitution of Service

…though the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved. —2
Corinthians 12:15

Natural human love expects something in return. But Paul is saying,
“It doesn’t really matter to me whether you love me or not. I am
willing to be completely destitute anyway; willing to be poverty-
stricken, not just for your sakes, but also that I may be able to get
you to God.” “For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that
though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor…” (2 Corinthians
8:9). And Paul’s idea of service was the same as our Lord’s. He did
not care how high the cost was to himself— he would gladly pay it. It
was a joyful thing to Paul.

The institutional church’s idea of a servant of God is not at all like
Jesus Christ’s idea. His idea is that we serve Him by being the
servants of others. Jesus Christ actually “out-socialized” the
socialists. He said that in His kingdom the greatest one would be the
servant of all (see Matthew 23:11). The real test of a saint is not
one’s willingness to preach the gospel, but one’s willingness to do
something like washing the disciples’ feet— that is, being willing to
do those things that seem unimportant in human estimation but count as
everything to God. It was Paul’s delight to spend his life for God’s
interests in other people, and he did not care what it cost. But
before we will serve, we stop to ponder our personal and financial
concerns— “What if God wants me to go over there? And what about my
salary? What is the climate like there? Who will take care of me? A
person must consider all these things.” All that is an indication that
we have reservations about serving God. But the apostle Paul had no
conditions or reservations. Paul focused his life on Jesus Christ’s
idea of a New Testament saint; that is, not one who merely proclaims
the gospel, but one who becomes broken bread and poured-out wine in
the hands of Jesus Christ for the sake of others.

By Oswald Chambers

