https://utmost.org/isn%E2%80%99t-there-some-misunderstanding/

Isn’t There Some Misunderstanding?

"Let us go to Judea again." The disciples said to Him, "…are You going
there again?" —John 11:7-8

Just because I don’t understand what Jesus Christ says, I have no
right to determine that He must be mistaken in what He says. That is a
dangerous view, and it is never right to think that my obedience to
God’s directive will bring dishonor to Jesus. The only thing that will
bring dishonor is not obeying Him. To put my view of His honor ahead
of what He is plainly guiding me to do is never right, even though it
may come from a real desire to prevent Him from being put to an open
shame. I know when the instructions have come from God because of
their quiet persistence. But when I begin to weigh the pros and cons,
and doubt and debate enter into my mind, I am bringing in an element
that is not of God. This will only result in my concluding that His
instructions to me were not right. Many of us are faithful to our
ideas about Jesus Christ, but how many of us are faithful to Jesus
Himself? Faithfulness to Jesus means that I must step out even when
and where I can’t see anything (see Matthew 14:29). But faithfulness
to my own ideas means that I first clear the way mentally. Faith,
however, is not intellectual understanding; faith is a deliberate
commitment to the Person of Jesus Christ, even when I can’t see the
way ahead.

Are you debating whether you should take a step of faith in Jesus, or
whether you should wait until you can clearly see how to do what He
has asked? Simply obey Him with unrestrained joy. When He tells you
something and you begin to debate, it is because you have a
misunderstanding of what honors Him and what doesn’t. Are you faithful
to Jesus, or faithful to your ideas about Him? Are you faithful to
what He says, or are you trying to compromise His words with thoughts
that never came from Him? “Whatever He says to you, do it” (John 2:5).

By Oswald Chambers

