http://utmost.org/a-life-of-pure-and-holy-sacrifice/

A Life of Pure and Holy Sacrifice

He who believes in Me…out of his heart will flow… —John 7:38

Jesus did not say, “He who believes in Me will realize all the
blessings of the fullness of God,” but, in essence, “He who believes
in Me will have everything he receives escape out of him.” Our Lord’s
teaching was always anti-self-realization. His purpose is not the
development of a person— His purpose is to make a person exactly like
Himself, and the Son of God is characterized by self-expenditure. If
we believe in Jesus, it is not what we gain but what He pours through
us that really counts. God’s purpose is not simply to make us
beautiful, plump grapes, but to make us grapes so that He may squeeze
the sweetness out of us. Our spiritual life cannot be measured by
success as the world measures it, but only by what God pours through
us— and we cannot measure that at all.

When Mary of Bethany “broke the flask…of very costly oil…and poured it
on [Jesus’] head,” it was an act for which no one else saw any special
occasion; in fact, “…there were some who…said, ‘Why was this fragrant
oil wasted?’ ” (Mark 14:3-4). But Jesus commended Mary for her
extravagant act of devotion, and said, “…wherever this gospel is
preached…what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to
her” (Mark 14:9). Our Lord is filled with overflowing joy whenever He
sees any of us doing what Mary did— not being bound by a particular
set of rules, but being totally surrendered to Him. God poured out the
life of His Son “that the world through Him might be saved” (John
3:17). Are we prepared to pour out our lives for Him?

“He who believes in Me…out of his heart will flow rivers of living
water”— and hundreds of other lives will be continually refreshed. Now
is the time for us to break “the flask” of our lives, to stop seeking
our own satisfaction, and to pour out our lives before Him. Our Lord
is asking who of us will do it for Him?

By Oswald Chambers

