http://utmost.org/get-moving-1/

Get Moving! (1)

Abide in Me… —John 15:4

In the matter of determination. The Spirit of Jesus is put into me by
way of the atonement by the Cross of Christ. I then have to build my
thinking patiently to bring it into perfect harmony with my Lord. God
will not make me think like Jesus— I have to do it myself. I have to
bring “every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ” (2
Corinthians 10:5). “Abide in Me”— in intellectual matters, in money
matters, in every one of the matters that make human life what it is.
Our lives are not made up of only one neatly confined area.

Am I preventing God from doing things in my circumstances by saying
that it will only serve to hinder my fellowship with Him? How
irrelevant and disrespectful that is! It does not matter what my
circumstances are. I can be as much assured of abiding in Jesus in any
one of them as I am in any prayer meeting. It is unnecessary to change
and arrange my circumstances myself. Our Lord’s inner abiding was pure
and unblemished. He was at home with God wherever His body was. He
never chose His own circumstances, but was meek, submitting to His
Father’s plans and directions for Him. Just think of how amazingly
relaxed our Lord’s life was! But we tend to keep God at a fever pitch
in our lives. We have none of the serenity of the life which is
“hidden with Christ in God” (Colossians 3:3).

Think of the things that take you out of the position of abiding in
Christ. You say, “Yes, Lord, just a minute— I still have this to do.
Yes, I will abide as soon as this is finished, or as soon as this week
is over. It will be all right, Lord. I will abide then.” Get moving—
begin to abide now. In the initial stages it will be a continual
effort to abide, but as you continue, it will become so much a part of
your life that you will abide in Him without any conscious effort.
Make the determination to abide in Jesus wherever you are now or
wherever you may be placed in the future.

By Oswald Chambers

