http://utmost.org/the-habit-of-keeping-a-clear-conscience/

The Habit of Keeping a Clear Conscience

…strive to have a conscience without offense toward God and men. —Acts
24:16

God’s commands to us are actually given to the life of His Son in us.
Consequently, to our human nature in which God’s Son has been formed
(see Galatians 4:19), His commands are difficult. But they become
divinely easy once we obey.

Conscience is that ability within me that attaches itself to the
highest standard I know, and then continually reminds me of what that
standard demands that I do. It is the eye of the soul which looks out
either toward God or toward what we regard as the highest standard.
This explains why conscience is different in different people. If I am
in the habit of continually holding God’s standard in front of me, my
conscience will always direct me to God’s perfect law and indicate
what I should do. The question is, will I obey? I have to make an
effort to keep my conscience so sensitive that I can live without any
offense toward anyone. I should be living in such perfect harmony with
God’s Son that the spirit of my mind is being renewed through every
circumstance of life, and that I may be able to quickly “prove what is
that good and acceptable and perfect will of God” (Romans 12:2 ; also
see Ephesians 4:23).

God always instructs us down to the last detail. Is my ear sensitive
enough to hear even the softest whisper of the Spirit, so that I know
what I should do? “Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God…” (Ephesians
4:30). He does not speak with a voice like thunder— His voice is so
gentle that it is easy for us to ignore. And the only thing that keeps
our conscience sensitive to Him is the habit of being open to God on
the inside. When you begin to debate, stop immediately. Don’t ask,
“Why can’t I do this?” You are on the wrong track. There is no
debating possible once your conscience speaks. Whatever it is— drop
it, and see that you keep your inner vision clear.

By Oswald Chambers

