http://utmost.org/the-missionary%E2%80%99s-goal/

The Missionary’s Goal

He…said to them, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem…" —Luke 18:31

In our natural life our ambitions change as we grow, but in the
Christian life the goal is given at the very beginning, and the
beginning and the end are exactly the same, namely, our Lord Himself.
We start with Christ and we end with Him— “…till we all come…to the
measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ…” (Ephesians 4:13),
not simply to our own idea of what the Christian life should be. The
goal of the missionary is to do God’s will, not to be useful or to win
the lost. A missionary is useful and he does win the lost, but that is
not his goal. His goal is to do the will of his Lord.

In our Lord’s life, Jerusalem was the place where He reached the
culmination of His Father’s will upon the cross, and unless we go
there with Jesus we will have no friendship or fellowship with Him.
Nothing ever diverted our Lord on His way to Jerusalem. He never
hurried through certain villages where He was persecuted, or lingered
in others where He was blessed. Neither gratitude nor ingratitude
turned our Lord even the slightest degree away from His purpose to go
“up to Jerusalem.”

“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master”
(Matthew 10:24). In other words, the same things that happened to our
Lord will happen to us on our way to our “Jerusalem.” There will be
works of God exhibited through us, people will get blessed, and one or
two will show gratitude while the rest will show total ingratitude,
but nothing must divert us from going “up to [our] Jerusalem.”

“…there they crucified Him…” (Luke 23:33). That is what happened when
our Lord reached Jerusalem, and that event is the doorway to our
salvation. The saints, however, do not end in crucifixion; by the
Lord’s grace they end in glory. In the meantime our watchword should
be summed up by each of us saying, “I too go ‘up to Jerusalem.’ ”

By Oswald Chambers

