http://utmost.org/the-go-of-preparation/

The “Go” of Preparation

If you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your
brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the
altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then
come and offer your gift. —Matthew 5:23-24

It is easy for us to imagine that we will suddenly come to a point in
our lives where we are fully prepared, but preparation is not suddenly
accomplished. In fact, it is a process that must be steadily
maintained. It is dangerous to become settled and complacent in our
present level of experience. The Christian life requires preparation
and more preparation.

The sense of sacrifice in the Christian life is readily appealing to a
new Christian. From a human standpoint, the one thing that attracts us
to Jesus Christ is our sense of the heroic, and a close examination of
us by our Lord’s words suddenly puts this tide of enthusiasm to the
test. “…go your way. First be reconciled to your brother….” The “go”
of preparation is to allow the Word of God to examine you closely.
Your sense of heroic sacrifice is not good enough. The thing the Holy
Spirit will detect in you is your nature that can never work in His
service. And no one but God can detect that nature in you. Do you have
anything to hide from God? If you do, then let God search you with His
light. If there is sin in your life, don’t just admit it— confess it.
Are you willing to obey your Lord and Master, whatever the humiliation
to your right to yourself may be?

Never disregard a conviction that the Holy Spirit brings to you. If it
is important enough for the Spirit of God to bring it to your mind, it
is the very thing He is detecting in you. You were looking for some
big thing to give up, while God is telling you of some tiny thing that
must go. But behind that tiny thing lies the stronghold of obstinacy,
and you say, “I will not give up my right to myself”— the very thing
that God intends you to give up if you are to be a disciple of Jesus
Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

