https://utmost.org/will-i-bring-myself-up-to-this-level/

Will I Bring Myself Up to This Level?

…perfecting holiness in the fear of God. —2 Corinthians 7:1

“Therefore, having these promises….” I claim God’s promises for my
life and look to their fulfillment, and rightly so, but that shows
only the human perspective on them. God’s perspective is that through
His promises I will come to recognize His claim of ownership on me.
For example, do I realize that my “body is the temple of the Holy
Spirit,” or am I condoning some habit in my body which clearly could
not withstand the light of God on it? (1 Corinthians 6:19). God formed
His Son in me through sanctification, setting me apart from sin and
making me holy in His sight (see Galatians 4:19). But I must begin to
transform my natural life into spiritual life by obedience to Him. God
instructs us even in the smallest details of life. And when He brings
you conviction of sin, do not “confer with flesh and blood,” but
cleanse yourself from it at once (Galatians 1:16). Keep yourself
cleansed in your daily walk.

I must cleanse myself from all filthiness in my flesh and my spirit
until both are in harmony with the nature of God. Is the mind of my
spirit in perfect agreement with the life of the Son of God in me, or
am I mentally rebellious and defiant? Am I allowing the mind of Christ
to be formed in me? (see Philippians 2:5). Christ never spoke of His
right to Himself, but always maintained an inner vigilance to submit
His spirit continually to His Father. I also have the responsibility
to keep my spirit in agreement with His Spirit. And when I do, Jesus
gradually lifts me up to the level where He lived— a level of perfect
submission to His Father’s will— where I pay no attention to anything
else. Am I perfecting this kind of holiness in the fear of God? Is God
having His way with me, and are people beginning to see God in my life
more and more?

Be serious in your commitment to God and gladly leave everything else
alone. Literally put God first in your life.

By Oswald Chambers

