http://utmost.org/the-consecration-of-spiritual-power/

The Consecration of Spiritual Power

…by whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
—Galatians 6:14

If I dwell on the Cross of Christ, I do not simply become inwardly
devout and solely interested in my own holiness— I become strongly
focused on Jesus Christ’s interests. Our Lord was not a recluse nor a
fanatical holy man practicing self-denial. He did not physically cut
Himself off from society, but He was inwardly disconnected all the
time. He was not aloof, but He lived in another world. In fact, He was
so much in the common everyday world that the religious people of His
day accused Him of being a glutton and a drunkard. Yet our Lord never
allowed anything to interfere with His consecration of spiritual
power.

It is not genuine consecration to think that we can refuse to be used
of God now in order to store up our spiritual power for later use.
That is a hopeless mistake. The Spirit of God has set a great many
people free from their sin, yet they are experiencing no fullness in
their lives— no true sense of freedom. The kind of religious life we
see around the world today is entirely different from the vigorous
holiness of the life of Jesus Christ. “I do not pray that You should
take them out of the world, but that You should keep them from the
evil one” (John 17:15). We are to be in the world but not of it— to be
separated internally, not externally (see John 17:16).

We must never allow anything to interfere with the consecration of our
spiritual power. Consecration (being dedicated to God’s service) is
our part; sanctification (being set apart from sin and being made
holy) is God’s part. We must make a deliberate determination to be
interested only in what God is interested. The way to make that
determination, when faced with a perplexing problem, is to ask
yourself, “Is this the kind of thing in which Jesus Christ is
interested, or is it something in which the spirit that is
diametrically opposed to Jesus is interested?”

By Oswald Chambers

