http://utmost.org/the-right-kind-of-help/

The Right Kind of Help

And I, if I am lifted up…will draw all peoples to Myself. —John 12:32

Very few of us have any understanding of the reason why Jesus Christ
died. If sympathy is all that human beings need, then the Cross of
Christ is an absurdity and there is absolutely no need for it. What
the world needs is not “a little bit of love,” but major surgery.

When you find yourself face to face with a person who is spiritually
lost, remind yourself of Jesus Christ on the cross. If that person can
get to God in any other way, then the Cross of Christ is unnecessary.
If you think you are helping lost people with your sympathy and
understanding, you are a traitor to Jesus Christ. You must have a
right-standing relationship with Him yourself, and pour your life out
in helping others in His way— not in a human way that ignores God. The
theme of the world’s religion today is to serve in a pleasant, non-
confrontational manner.

But our only priority must be to present Jesus Christ crucified— to
lift Him up all the time (see 1 Corinthians 2:2). Every belief that is
not firmly rooted in the Cross of Christ will lead people astray. If
the worker himself believes in Jesus Christ and is trusting in the
reality of redemption, his words will be compelling to others. What is
extremely important is for the worker’s simple relationship with Jesus
Christ to be strong and growing. His usefulness to God depends on
that, and that alone.

The calling of a New Testament worker is to expose sin and to reveal
Jesus Christ as Savior. Consequently, he cannot always be charming and
friendly, but must be willing to be stern to accomplish major surgery.
We are sent by God to lift up Jesus Christ, not to give wonderfully
beautiful speeches. We must be willing to examine others as deeply as
God has examined us. We must also be sharply intent on sensing those
Scripture passages that will drive the truth home, and then not be
afraid to apply them.

By Oswald Chambers

