http://utmost.org/the-habit-of-having-no-habits/

The Habit of Having No Habits

If these things are yours and abound, you will be neither barren nor
unfruitful… —2 Peter 1:8

When we first begin to form a habit, we are fully aware of it. There
are times when we are aware of becoming virtuous and godly, but this
awareness should only be a stage we quickly pass through as we grow
spiritually. If we stop at this stage, we will develop a sense of
spiritual pride. The right thing to do with godly habits is to immerse
them in the life of the Lord until they become such a spontaneous
expression of our lives that we are no longer aware of them. Our
spiritual life continually causes us to focus our attention inwardly
for the determined purpose of self-examination, because each of us has
some qualities we have not yet added to our lives.

Your god may be your little Christian habit— the habit of prayer or
Bible reading at certain times of your day. Watch how your Father will
upset your schedule if you begin to worship your habit instead of what
the habit symbolizes. We say, “I can’t do that right now; this is my
time alone with God.” No, this is your time alone with your habit.
There is a quality that is still lacking in you. Identify your
shortcoming and then look for opportunities to work into your life
that missing quality.

Love means that there are no visible habits— that your habits are so
immersed in the Lord that you practice them without realizing it. If
you are consciously aware of your own holiness, you place limitations
on yourself from doing certain things— things God is not restricting
you from at all. This means there is a missing quality that needs to
be added to your life. The only supernatural life is the life the Lord
Jesus lived, and He was at home with God anywhere. Is there someplace
where you are not at home with God? Then allow God to work through
whatever that particular circumstance may be until you increase in
Him, adding His qualities. Your life will then become the simple life
of a child.

By Oswald Chambers

