http://utmost.org/work-out-what-god-works-in-you/

“Work Out” What God “Works in” You

…work out your own salvation…for it is God who works in you…
—Philippians 2:12-13

Your will agrees with God, but in your flesh there is a nature that
renders you powerless to do what you know you ought to do. When the
Lord initially comes in contact with our conscience, the first thing
our conscience does is awaken our will, and our will always agrees
with God. Yet you say, “But I don’t know if my will is in agreement
with God.” Look to Jesus and you will find that your will and your
conscience are in agreement with Him every time. What causes you to
say “I will not obey” is something less deep and penetrating than your
will. It is perversity or stubbornness, and they are never in
agreement with God. The most profound thing in a person is his will,
not sin.

The will is the essential element in God’s creation of human beings—
sin is a perverse nature which entered into people. In someone who has
been born again, the source of the will is Almighty God. “…for it is
God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure.”
With focused attention and great care, you have to “work out” what God
“works in” you— not work to accomplish or earn “your own salvation,”
but work it out so you will exhibit the evidence of a life based with
determined, unshakable faith on the complete and perfect redemption of
the Lord. As you do this, you do not bring an opposing will up against
God’s will— God’s will is your will. Your natural choices will be in
accordance with God’s will, and living this life will be as natural as
breathing. Stubbornness is an unintelligent barrier, refusing
enlightenment and blocking its flow. The only thing to do with this
barrier of stubbornness is to blow it up with “dynamite,” and the
“dynamite” is obedience to the Holy Spirit.

Do I believe that Almighty God is the Source of my will? God not only
expects me to do His will, but He is in me to do it.

By Oswald Chambers

