http://utmost.org/the-habit-of-recognizing-god%E2%80%99s-provision/

The Habit of Recognizing God’s Provision

…you may be partakers of the divine nature… —2 Peter 1:4

We are made “partakers of the divine nature,” receiving and sharing
God’s own nature through His promises. Then we have to work that
divine nature into our human nature by developing godly habits. The
first habit to develop is the habit of recognizing God’s provision for
us. We say, however, “Oh, I can’t afford it.” One of the worst lies is
wrapped up in that statement. We talk as if our heavenly Father has
cut us off without a penny! We think it is a sign of true humility to
say at the end of the day, “Well, I just barely got by today, but it
was a severe struggle.” And yet all of Almighty God is ours in the
Lord Jesus! And He will reach to the last grain of sand and the
remotest star to bless us if we will only obey Him. Does it really
matter that our circumstances are difficult? Why shouldn’t they be! If
we give way to self-pity and indulge in the luxury of misery, we
remove God’s riches from our lives and hinder others from entering
into His provision. No sin is worse than the sin of self-pity, because
it removes God from the throne of our lives, replacing Him with our
own self-interests. It causes us to open our mouths only to complain,
and we simply become spiritual sponges— always absorbing, never
giving, and never being satisfied. And there is nothing lovely or
generous about our lives.

Before God becomes satisfied with us, He will take everything of our
so-called wealth, until we learn that He is our Source; as the
psalmist said, “All my springs are in You” (Psalm 87:7). If the
majesty, grace, and power of God are not being exhibited in us, God
holds us responsible. “God is able to make all grace abound toward
you, that you…may have an abundance…” (2 Corinthians 9:8)— then learn
to lavish the grace of God on others, generously giving of yourself.
Be marked and identified with God’s nature, and His blessing will flow
through you all the time.

By Oswald Chambers

