http://utmost.org/the-ministry-of-the-unnoticed/

The Ministry of the Unnoticed

Blessed are the poor in spirit… —Matthew 5:3

The New Testament notices things that do not seem worthy of notice by
our standards. “Blessed are the poor in spirit….” This literally
means, “Blessed are the paupers.” Paupers are remarkably commonplace!
The preaching of today tends to point out a person’s strength of will
or the beauty of his character— things that are easily noticed. The
statement we so often hear, “Make a decision for Jesus Christ,” places
the emphasis on something our Lord never trusted. He never asks us to
decide for Him, but to yield to Him— something very different. At the
foundation of Jesus Christ’s kingdom is the genuine loveliness of
those who are commonplace. I am truly blessed in my poverty. If I have
no strength of will and a nature without worth or excellence, then
Jesus says to me, “Blessed are you, because it is through your poverty
that you can enter My kingdom.” I cannot enter His kingdom by virtue
of my goodness— I can only enter it as an absolute pauper.

The true character of the loveliness that speaks for God is always
unnoticed by the one possessing that quality. Conscious influence is
prideful and unchristian. If I wonder if I am being of any use to God,
I instantly lose the beauty and the freshness of the touch of the
Lord. “He who believes in Me…out of his heart will flow rivers of
living water” (John 7:38). And if I examine the outflow, I lose the
touch of the Lord.

Who are the people who have influenced us most? Certainly not the ones
who thought they did, but those who did not have even the slightest
idea that they were influencing us. In the Christian life, godly
influence is never conscious of itself. If we are conscious of our
influence, it ceases to have the genuine loveliness which is
characteristic of the touch of Jesus. We always know when Jesus is at
work because He produces in the commonplace something that is
inspiring.

By Oswald Chambers

