http://utmost.org/the-submission-of-the-believer/

The Submission of the Believer

You call Me Teacher and Lord, and you say well, for so I am. —John
13:13

Our Lord never insists on having authority over us. He never says,
“You will submit to me.” No, He leaves us perfectly free to choose— so
free, in fact, that we can spit in His face or we can put Him to
death, as others have done; and yet He will never say a word. But once
His life has been created in me through His redemption, I instantly
recognize His right to absolute authority over me. It is a complete
and effective domination, in which I acknowledge that “You are worthy,
O Lord…” (Revelation 4:11). It is simply the unworthiness within me
that refuses to bow down or to submit to one who is worthy. When I
meet someone who is more holy than myself, and I don’t recognize his
worthiness, nor obey his instructions for me, it is a sign of my own
unworthiness being revealed. God teaches us by using these people who
are a little better than we are; not better intellectually, but more
holy. And He continues to do so until we willingly submit. Then the
whole attitude of our life is one of obedience to Him.

If our Lord insisted on our obedience, He would simply become a
taskmaster and cease to have any real authority. He never insists on
obedience, but when we truly see Him we will instantly obey Him. Then
He is easily Lord of our life, and we live in adoration of Him from
morning till night. The level of my growth in grace is revealed by the
way I look at obedience. We should have a much higher view of the word
obedience, rescuing it from the mire of the world. Obedience is only
possible between people who are equals in their relationship to each
other; like the relationship between father and son, not that between
master and servant. Jesus showed this relationship by saying, “I and
My Father are one” (John 10:30). “…though He was a Son, yet He learned
obedience by the things which He suffered” (Hebrews 5:8). The Son was
obedient as our Redeemer, because He was the Son, not in order to
become God’s Son.

By Oswald Chambers

