http://utmost.org/prayer-in-the-father%E2%80%99s-honor/

Prayer in the Father’s Honor

…that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. —Luke
1:35

If the Son of God has been born into my human flesh, then am I
allowing His holy innocence, simplicity, and oneness with the Father
the opportunity to exhibit itself in me? What was true of the Virgin
Mary in the history of the Son of God’s birth on earth is true of
every saint. God’s Son is born into me through the direct act of God;
then I as His child must exercise the right of a child— the right of
always being face to face with my Father through prayer. Do I find
myself continually saying in amazement to the commonsense part of my
life, “Why did you want me to turn here or to go over there? ‘Did you
not know that I must be about My Father’s business?’ ” (Luke 2:49).
Whatever our circumstances may be, that holy, innocent, and eternal
Child must be in contact with His Father.

Am I simple enough to identify myself with my Lord in this way? Is He
having His wonderful way with me? Is God’s will being fulfilled in
that His Son has been formed in me (see Galatians 4:19), or have I
carefully pushed Him to one side? Oh, the noisy outcry of today! Why
does everyone seem to be crying out so loudly? People today are crying
out for the Son of God to be put to death. There is no room here for
God’s Son right now— no room for quiet, holy fellowship and oneness
with the Father.

Is the Son of God praying in me, bringing honor to the Father, or am I
dictating my demands to Him? Is He ministering in me as He did in the
time of His manhood here on earth? Is God’s Son in me going through
His passion, suffering so that His own purposes might be fulfilled?
The more a person knows of the inner life of God’s most mature saints,
the more he sees what God’s purpose really is: to “…fill up in my
flesh what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ…” (Colossians
1:24). And when we think of what it takes to “fill up,” there is
always something yet to be done.

By Oswald Chambers

