http://utmost.org/the-impartial-power-of-god/

The Impartial Power of God

By one offering He has perfected forever those who are being
sanctified. —Hebrews 10:14

We trample the blood of the Son of God underfoot if we think we are
forgiven because we are sorry for our sins. The only reason for the
forgiveness of our sins by God, and the infinite depth of His promise
to forget them, is the death of Jesus Christ. Our repentance is merely
the result of our personal realization of the atonement by the Cross
of Christ, which He has provided for us. “…Christ Jesus…became for us
wisdom from God— and righteousness and sanctification and redemption…”
(1 Corinthians 1:30). Once we realize that Christ has become all this
for us, the limitless joy of God begins in us. And wherever the joy of
God is not present, the death sentence is still in effect.

No matter who or what we are, God restores us to right standing with
Himself only by means of the death of Jesus Christ. God does this, not
because Jesus pleads with Him to do so but because He died. It cannot
be earned, just accepted. All the pleading for salvation which
deliberately ignores the Cross of Christ is useless. It is knocking at
a door other than the one which Jesus has already opened. We protest
by saying, “But I don’t want to come that way. It is too humiliating
to be received as a sinner.” God’s response, through Peter, is, “…
there is no other name…by which we must be saved” (Acts 4:12). What at
first appears to be heartlessness on God’s part is actually the true
expression of His heart. There is unlimited entrance His way. “In Him
we have redemption through His blood…” (Ephesians 1:7). To identify
with the death of Jesus Christ means that we must die to everything
that was never a part of Him.

God is just in saving bad people only as He makes them good. Our Lord
does not pretend we are all right when we are all wrong. The atonement
by the Cross of Christ is the propitiation God uses to make unholy
people holy.

By Oswald Chambers

