http://utmost.org/this-experience-must-come/

This Experience Must Come

Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha…saw him no more.
—2 Kings 2:11-12

It is not wrong for you to depend on your “Elijah” for as long as God
gives him to you. But remember that the time will come when he must
leave and will no longer be your guide and your leader, because God
does not intend for him to stay. Even the thought of that causes you
to say, “I cannot continue without my ‘Elijah.’ ” Yet God says you
must continue.

Alone at Your “Jordan” (2 Kings 2:14). The Jordan River represents the
type of separation where you have no fellowship with anyone else, and
where no one else can take your responsibility from you. You now have
to put to the test what you learned when you were with your “Elijah.”
You have been to the Jordan over and over again with Elijah, but now
you are facing it alone. There is no use in saying that you cannot go—
the experience is here, and you must go. If you truly want to know
whether or not God is the God your faith believes Him to be, then go
through your “Jordan” alone.

Alone at Your “Jericho” (2 Kings 2:15). Jericho represents the place
where you have seen your “Elijah” do great things. Yet when you come
alone to your “Jericho,” you have a strong reluctance to take the
initiative and trust in God, wanting, instead, for someone else to
take it for you. But if you remain true to what you learned while with
your “Elijah,” you will receive a sign, as Elisha did, that God is
with you.

Alone at Your “Bethel” (2 Kings 2:23). At your “Bethel” you will find
yourself at your wits’ end but at the beginning of God’s wisdom. When
you come to your wits’ end and feel inclined to panic— don’t! Stand
true to God and He will bring out His truth in a way that will make
your life an expression of worship. Put into practice what you learned
while with your “Elijah”— use his mantle and pray (see 2 Kings
2:13-14). Make a determination to trust in God, and do not even look
for Elijah anymore.

By Oswald Chambers

