http://utmost.org/the-collision-of-god-and-sin/

The Collision of God and Sin

…who Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree… —1 Peter 2:24

The Cross of Christ is the revealed truth of God’s judgment on sin.
Never associate the idea of martyrdom with the Cross of Christ. It was
the supreme triumph, and it shook the very foundations of hell. There
is nothing in time or eternity more absolutely certain and irrefutable
than what Jesus Christ accomplished on the Cross— He made it possible
for the entire human race to be brought back into a right-standing
relationship with God. He made redemption the foundation of human
life; that is, He made a way for every person to have fellowship with
God.

The Cross was not something that happened to Jesus— He came to die;
the Cross was His purpose in coming. He is “the Lamb slain from the
foundation of the world” (Revelation 13:8). The incarnation of Christ
would have no meaning without the Cross. Beware of separating “God was
manifested in the flesh…” from “…He made Him…to be sin for us…” (1
Timothy 3:16 ; 2 Corinthians 5:21). The purpose of the incarnation was
redemption. God came in the flesh to take sin away, not to accomplish
something for Himself. The Cross is the central event in time and
eternity, and the answer to all the problems of both.

The Cross is not the cross of a man, but the Cross of God, and it can
never be fully comprehended through human experience. The Cross is God
exhibiting His nature. It is the gate through which any and every
individual can enter into oneness with God. But it is not a gate we
pass right through; it is one where we abide in the life that is found
there.

The heart of salvation is the Cross of Christ. The reason salvation is
so easy to obtain is that it cost God so much. The Cross was the place
where God and sinful man merged with a tremendous collision and where
the way to life was opened. But all the cost and pain of the collision
was absorbed by the heart of God.

By Oswald Chambers

