http://utmost.org/what-do-you-want/

What Do You Want?

Do you seek great things for yourself? —Jeremiah 45:5

Are you seeking great things for yourself, instead of seeking to be a
great person? God wants you to be in a much closer relationship with
Himself than simply receiving His gifts— He wants you to get to know
Him. Even some large thing we want is only incidental; it comes and it
goes. But God never gives us anything incidental. There is nothing
easier than getting into the right relationship with God, unless it is
not God you seek, but only what He can give you.

If you have only come as far as asking God for things, you have never
come to the point of understanding the least bit of what surrender
really means. You have become a Christian based on your own terms. You
protest, saying, “I asked God for the Holy Spirit, but He didn’t give
me the rest and the peace I expected.” And instantly God puts His
finger on the reason– you are not seeking the Lord at all; you are
seeking something for yourself. Jesus said, “Ask, and it will be given
to you…” (Matthew 7:7). Ask God for what you want and do not be
concerned about asking for the wrong thing, because as you draw ever
closer to Him, you will cease asking for things altogether. “Your
Father knows the things you have need of before you ask Him” (Matthew
6:8). Then why should you ask? So that you may get to know Him.

Are you seeking great things for yourself? Have you said, “Oh, Lord,
completely fill me with your Holy Spirit”? If God does not, it is
because you are not totally surrendered to Him; there is something you
still refuse to do. Are you prepared to ask yourself what it is you
want from God and why you want it? God always ignores your present
level of completeness in favor of your ultimate future completeness.
He is not concerned about making you blessed and happy right now, but
He’s continually working out His ultimate perfection for you— “…that
they may be one just as We are one…” (John 17:22).

By Oswald Chambers

