http://utmost.org/my-joy-your-joy/

“My Joy…Your Joy”

These things I have spoken to you, that My joy may remain in you, and
that your joy may be full. —John 15:11

What was the joy that Jesus had? Joy should not be confused with
happiness. In fact, it is an insult to Jesus Christ to use the word
happiness in connection with Him. The joy of Jesus was His absolute
self-surrender and self-sacrifice to His Father— the joy of doing that
which the Father sent Him to do— “…who for the joy that was set before
Him endured the cross…” (Hebrews 12:2). “I delight to do Your will, O
my God…” (Psalm 40:8). Jesus prayed that our joy might continue
fulfilling itself until it becomes the same joy as His. Have I allowed
Jesus Christ to introduce His joy to me?

Living a full and overflowing life does not rest in bodily health, in
circumstances, nor even in seeing God’s work succeed, but in the
perfect understanding of God, and in the same fellowship and oneness
with Him that Jesus Himself enjoyed. But the first thing that will
hinder this joy is the subtle irritability caused by giving too much
thought to our circumstances. Jesus said, “…the cares of this
world,…choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful” (Mark 4:19). And
before we even realize what has happened, we are caught up in our
cares. All that God has done for us is merely the threshold— He wants
us to come to the place where we will be His witnesses and proclaim
who Jesus is.

Have the right relationship with God, finding your joy there, and out
of you “will flow rivers of living water” (John 7:38). Be a fountain
through which Jesus can pour His “living water.” Stop being
hypocritical and proud, aware only of yourself, and live “your
life…hidden with Christ in God” (Colossians 3:3). A person who has the
right relationship with God lives a life as natural as breathing
wherever he goes. The lives that have been the greatest blessing to
you are the lives of those people who themselves were unaware of
having been a blessing.

By Oswald Chambers

