http://utmost.org/does-he-know-me/

Does He Know Me?

He calls his own…by name… —John 10:3

When I have sadly misunderstood Him? (see John 20:11-18). It is
possible to know all about doctrine and still not know Jesus. A
person’s soul is in grave danger when the knowledge of doctrine
surpasses Jesus, avoiding intimate touch with Him. Why was Mary
weeping? Doctrine meant no more to her than the grass under her feet.
In fact, any Pharisee could have made a fool of Mary doctrinally, but
one thing they could never ridicule was the fact that Jesus had cast
seven demons out of her (see Luke 8:2); yet His blessings were nothing
to her in comparison with knowing Jesus Himself. “…she turned around
and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was
Jesus….Jesus said to her, ‘Mary!’ ” (John 20:14, 16). Once He called
Mary by her name, she immediately knew that she had a personal history
with the One who spoke. “She turned and said to Him, ‘Rabboni!’ ”
(John 20:16).

When I have stubbornly doubted? (see John 20:24-29). Have I been
doubting something about Jesus— maybe an experience to which others
testify, but which I have not yet experienced? The other disciples
said to Thomas, “We have seen the Lord” (John 20:25). But Thomas
doubted, saying, “Unless I see…I will not believe” (John 20:25).
Thomas needed the personal touch of Jesus. When His touches will come
we never know, but when they do come they are indescribably precious.
“Thomas…said to Him, ‘My Lord and my God!’ ” (John 20:28).

When I have selfishly denied Him? (see John 21:15-17). Peter denied
Jesus Christ with oaths and curses (see Matthew 26:69-75), and yet
after His resurrection Jesus appeared to Peter alone. Jesus restored
Peter in private, and then He restored him publicly before the others.
And Peter said to Him, “Lord…You know that I love You” (John 21:17).

Do I have a personal history with Jesus Christ? The one true sign of
discipleship is intimate oneness with Him— a knowledge of Jesus that
nothing can shake.

By Oswald Chambers

