http://utmost.org/the-doorway-to-the-kingdom/

The Doorway to the Kingdom

Blessed are the poor in spirit… —Matthew 5:3

Beware of thinking of our Lord as only a teacher. If Jesus Christ is
only a teacher, then all He can do is frustrate me by setting a
standard before me I cannot attain. What is the point of presenting me
with such a lofty ideal if I cannot possibly come close to reaching
it? I would be happier if I never knew it. What good is there in
telling me to be what I can never be— to be “pure in heart” (Matthew
5:8), to do more than my duty, or to be completely devoted to God? I
must know Jesus Christ as my Savior before His teaching has any
meaning for me other than that of a lofty ideal which only leads to
despair. But when I am born again by the Spirit of God, I know that
Jesus Christ did not come only to teach— He came to make me what He
teaches I should be. The redemption means that Jesus Christ can place
within anyone the same nature that ruled His own life, and all the
standards God gives us are based on that nature.

The teaching of the Sermon on the Mount produces a sense of despair in
the natural man— exactly what Jesus means for it to do. As long as we
have some self-righteous idea that we can carry out our Lord’s
teaching, God will allow us to continue until we expose our own
ignorance by stumbling over some obstacle in our way. Only then are we
willing to come to Him as paupers and receive from Him. “Blessed are
the poor in spirit….” This is the first principle in the kingdom of
God. The underlying foundation of Jesus Christ’s kingdom is poverty,
not possessions; not making decisions for Jesus, but having such a
sense of absolute futility that we finally admit, “Lord, I cannot even
begin to do it.” Then Jesus says, “Blessed are you…” (Matthew 5:11).
This is the doorway to the kingdom, and yet it takes us so long to
believe that we are actually poor! The knowledge of our own poverty is
what brings us to the proper place where Jesus Christ accomplishes His
work.

By Oswald Chambers

