https://utmost.org/if-you-had-known/

“If You Had Known!”

If you had known…in this your day, the things that make for your
peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes. —Luke 19:42

Jesus entered Jerusalem triumphantly and the city was stirred to its
very foundations, but a strange god was there– the pride of the
Pharisees. It was a god that seemed religious and upright, but Jesus
compared it to “whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful
outwardly, but inside are full of dead men’s bones and all
uncleanness” (Matthew 23:27).

What is it that blinds you to the peace of God “in this your day”? Do
you have a strange god– not a disgusting monster but perhaps an unholy
nature that controls your life? More than once God has brought me face
to face with a strange god in my life, and I knew that I should have
given it up, but I didn’t do it. I got through the crisis “by the skin
of my teeth,” only to find myself still under the control of that
strange god. I am blind to the very things that make for my own peace.
It is a shocking thing that we can be in the exact place where the
Spirit of God should be having His completely unhindered way with us,
and yet we only make matters worse, increasing our blame in God’s
eyes.

“If you had known….” God’s words here cut directly to the heart, with
the tears of Jesus behind them. These words imply responsibility for
our own faults. God holds us accountable for what we refuse to see or
are unable to see because of our sin. And “now they are hidden from
your eyes” because you have never completely yielded your nature to
Him. Oh, the deep, unending sadness for what might have been! God
never again opens the doors that have been closed. He opens other
doors, but He reminds us that there are doors which we have shut–
doors which had no need to be shut. Never be afraid when God brings
back your past. Let your memory have its way with you. It is a
minister of God bringing its rebuke and sorrow to you. God will turn
what might have been into a wonderful lesson of growth for the future.

By Oswald Chambers

