http://utmost.org/the-habit-of-enjoying-adversity/

The Habit of Enjoying Adversity

…that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body. —2
Corinthians 4:10

We have to develop godly habits to express what God’s grace has done
in us. It is not just a question of being saved from hell, but of
being saved so that “the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our
body.” And it is adversity that makes us exhibit His life in our
mortal flesh. Is my life exhibiting the essence of the sweetness of
the Son of God, or just the basic irritation of “myself” that I would
have apart from Him? The only thing that will enable me to enjoy
adversity is the acute sense of eagerness of allowing the life of the
Son of God to evidence itself in me. No matter how difficult something
may be, I must say, “Lord, I am delighted to obey You in this.”
Instantly, the Son of God will move to the forefront of my life, and
will manifest in my body that which glorifies Him.

You must not debate. The moment you obey the light of God, His Son
shines through you in that very adversity; but if you debate with God,
you grieve His Spirit (see Ephesians 4:30). You must keep yourself in
the proper condition to allow the life of the Son of God to be
manifested in you, and you cannot keep yourself fit if you give way to
self-pity. Our circumstances are the means God uses to exhibit just
how wonderfully perfect and extraordinarily pure His Son is.
Discovering a new way of manifesting the Son of God should make our
heart beat with renewed excitement. It is one thing to choose
adversity, and quite another to enter into adversity through the
orchestrating of our circumstances by God’s sovereignty. And if God
puts you into adversity, He is adequately sufficient to “supply all
your need” (Philippians 4:19).

Keep your soul properly conditioned to manifest the life of the Son of
God. Never live on your memories of past experiences, but let the Word
of God always be living and active in you.

By Oswald Chambers

