http://utmost.org/the-go-of-relationship/

The “Go” of Relationship

Whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. —Matthew 5:41

Our Lord’s teaching can be summed up in this: the relationship that He
demands for us is an impossible one unless He has done a supernatural
work in us. Jesus Christ demands that His disciple does not allow even
the slightest trace of resentment in his heart when faced with tyranny
and injustice. No amount of enthusiasm will ever stand up to the
strain that Jesus Christ will put upon His servant. Only one thing
will bear the strain, and that is a personal relationship with Jesus
Christ Himself— a relationship that has been examined, purified, and
tested until only one purpose remains and I can truly say, “I am here
for God to send me where He will.” Everything else may become blurred,
but this relationship with Jesus Christ must never be.

The Sermon on the Mount is not some unattainable goal; it is a
statement of what will happen in me when Jesus Christ has changed my
nature by putting His own nature in me. Jesus Christ is the only One
who can fulfill the Sermon on the Mount.

If we are to be disciples of Jesus, we must be made disciples
supernaturally. And as long as we consciously maintain the determined
purpose to be His disciples, we can be sure that we are not disciples.
Jesus says, “You did not choose Me, but I chose you…” (John 15:16).
That is the way the grace of God begins. It is a constraint we can
never escape; we can disobey it, but we can never start it or produce
it ourselves. We are drawn to God by a work of His supernatural grace,
and we can never trace back to find where the work began. Our Lord’s
making of a disciple is supernatural. He does not build on any natural
capacity of ours at all. God does not ask us to do the things that are
naturally easy for us— He only asks us to do the things that we are
perfectly fit to do through His grace, and that is where the cross we
must bear will always come.

By Oswald Chambers

