https://utmost.org/total-surrender/

Total Surrender

Peter began to say to Him, "See, we have left all and followed You."
—Mark 10:28

Our Lord replies to this statement of Peter by saying that this
surrender is “for My sake and the gospel’s” (Mark 10:29). It was not
for the purpose of what the disciples themselves would get out of it.
Beware of surrender that is motivated by personal benefits that may
result. For example, “I’m going to give myself to God because I want
to be delivered from sin, because I want to be made holy.” Being
delivered from sin and being made holy are the result of being right
with God, but surrender resulting from this kind of thinking is
certainly not the true nature of Christianity. Our motive for
surrender should not be for any personal gain at all. We have become
so self-centered that we go to God only for something from Him, and
not for God Himself. It is like saying, “No, Lord, I don’t want you; I
want myself. But I do want You to clean me and fill me with Your Holy
Spirit. I want to be on display in Your showcase so I can say, ‘This
is what God has done for me.’ ” Gaining heaven, being delivered from
sin, and being made useful to God are things that should never even be
a consideration in real surrender. Genuine total surrender is a
personal sovereign preference for Jesus Christ Himself.

Where does Jesus Christ figure in when we have a concern about our
natural relationships? Most of us will desert Him with this excuse—
“Yes, Lord, I heard you call me, but my family needs me and I have my
own interests. I just can’t go any further” (see Luke 9:57-62).
“Then,” Jesus says, “you ‘cannot be My disciple’ ” (see Luke
14:26-33).

True surrender will always go beyond natural devotion. If we will only
give up, God will surrender Himself to embrace all those around us and
will meet their needs, which were created by our surrender. Beware of
stopping anywhere short of total surrender to God. Most of us have
only a vision of what this really means, but have never truly
experienced it.

By Oswald Chambers

