http://utmost.org/fountains-of-blessings/

Fountains of Blessings

The water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water
springing up into everlasting life. —John 4:14

The picture our Lord described here is not that of a simple stream of
water, but an overflowing fountain. Continue to “be filled” (Ephesians
5:18) and the sweetness of your vital relationship to Jesus will flow
as generously out of you as it has been given to you. If you find that
His life is not springing up as it should, you are to blame— something
is obstructing the flow. Was Jesus saying to stay focused on the
Source so that you may be blessed personally? No, you are to focus on
the Source so that out of you “will flow rivers of living water”—
irrepressible life (John 7:38).

We are to be fountains through which Jesus can flow as “rivers of
living water” in blessing to everyone. Yet some of us are like the
Dead Sea, always receiving but never giving, because our relationship
is not right with the Lord Jesus. As surely as we receive blessings
from Him, He will pour out blessings through us. But whenever the
blessings are not being poured out in the same measure they are
received, there is a defect in our relationship with Him. Is there
anything between you and Jesus Christ? Is there anything hindering
your faith in Him? If not, then Jesus says that out of you “will flow
rivers of living water.” It is not a blessing that you pass on, or an
experience that you share with others, but a river that continually
flows through you. Stay at the Source, closely guarding your faith in
Jesus Christ and your relationship to Him, and there will be a steady
flow into the lives of others with no dryness or deadness whatsoever.

Is it excessive to say that rivers will flow out of one individual
believer? Do you look at yourself and say, “But I don’t see the
rivers”? Through the history of God’s work you will usually find that
He has started with the obscure, the unknown, the ignored, but those
who have been steadfastly true to Jesus Christ.

By Oswald Chambers

