https://utmost.org/the-piercing-question/

The Piercing Question

Do you love Me? —John 21:17

Peter’s response to this piercing question is considerably different
from the bold defiance he exhibited only a few days before when he
declared, “Even if I have to die with You, I will not deny You!”
(Matthew 26:35; also see Matthew 26:33-34). Our natural individuality,
or our natural self, boldly speaks out and declares its feelings. But
the true love within our inner spiritual self can be discovered only
by experiencing the hurt of this question of Jesus Christ. Peter loved
Jesus in the way any natural man loves a good person. Yet that is
nothing but emotional love. It may reach deeply into our natural self,
but it never penetrates to the spirit of a person. True love never
simply declares itself. Jesus said, “Whoever confesses Me before men
[that is, confesses his love by everything he does, not merely by his
words], him the Son of Man also will confess before the angels of God”
(Luke 12:8).

Unless we are experiencing the hurt of facing every deception about
ourselves, we have hindered the work of the Word of God in our lives.
The Word of God inflicts hurt on us more than sin ever could, because
sin dulls our senses. But this question of the Lord intensifies our
sensitivities to the point that this hurt produced by Jesus is the
most exquisite pain conceivable. It hurts not only on the natural
level, but also on the deeper spiritual level. “For the Word of God is
living and powerful…, piercing even to the division of soul and
spirit…”— to the point that no deception can remain (Hebrews 4:12).
When the Lord asks us this question, it is impossible to think and
respond properly, because when the Lord speaks directly to us, the
pain is too intense. It causes such a tremendous hurt that any part of
our life which may be out of line with His will can feel the pain.
There is never any mistaking the pain of the Lord’s Word by His
children, but the moment that pain is felt is the very moment at which
God reveals His truth to us.

By Oswald Chambers

