http://utmost.org/the-warning-against-desiring-spiritual-success/

The Warning Against Desiring Spiritual Success

Do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you… —Luke
10:20

Worldliness is not the trap that most endangers us as Christian
workers; nor is it sin. The trap we fall into is extravagantly
desiring spiritual success; that is, success measured by, and
patterned after, the form set by this religious age in which we now
live. Never seek after anything other than the approval of God, and
always be willing to go “outside the camp, bearing His reproach”
(Hebrews 13:13). In Luke 10:20, Jesus told the disciples not to
rejoice in successful service, and yet this seems to be the one thing
in which most of us do rejoice. We have a commercialized view— we
count how many souls have been saved and sanctified, we thank God, and
then we think everything is all right. Yet our work only begins where
God’s grace has laid the foundation. Our work is not to save souls,
but to disciple them. Salvation and sanctification are the work of
God’s sovereign grace, and our work as His disciples is to disciple
others’ lives until they are totally yielded to God. One life totally
devoted to God is of more value to Him than one hundred lives which
have been simply awakened by His Spirit. As workers for God, we must
reproduce our own kind spiritually, and those lives will be God’s
testimony to us as His workers. God brings us up to a standard of life
through His grace, and we are responsible for reproducing that same
standard in others.

Unless the worker lives a life that “is hidden with Christ in God”
(Colossians 3:3), he is apt to become an irritating dictator to
others, instead of an active, living disciple. Many of us are
dictators, dictating our desires to individuals and to groups. But
Jesus never dictates to us in that way. Whenever our Lord talked about
discipleship, He always prefaced His words with an “if,” never with
the forceful or dogmatic statement— “You must.” Discipleship carries
with it an option.

By Oswald Chambers

