http://utmost.org/have-you-ever-been-speechless-with-sorrow/

Have You Ever Been Speechless with Sorrow?

When he heard this, he became very sorrowful, for he was very rich.
—Luke 18:23

The rich young ruler went away from Jesus speechless with sorrow,
having nothing to say in response to Jesus’ words. He had no doubt
about what Jesus had said or what it meant, and it produced in him a
sorrow with no words with which to respond. Have you ever been there?
Has God’s Word ever come to you, pointing out an area of your life,
requiring you to yield it to Him? Maybe He has pointed out certain
personal qualities, desires, and interests, or possibly relationships
of your heart and mind. If so, then you have often been speechless
with sorrow. The Lord will not go after you, and He will not plead
with you. But every time He meets you at the place where He has
pointed, He will simply repeat His words, saying, “If you really mean
what you say, these are the conditions.”

“Sell all that you have…” (Luke 18:22). In other words, rid yourself
before God of everything that might be considered a possession until
you are a mere conscious human being standing before Him, and then
give God that. That is where the battle is truly fought— in the realm
of your will before God. Are you more devoted to your idea of what
Jesus wants than to Jesus Himself? If so, you are likely to hear one
of His harsh and unyielding statements that will produce sorrow in
you. What Jesus says is difficult— it is only easy when it is heard by
those who have His nature in them. Beware of allowing anything to
soften the hard words of Jesus Christ.

I can be so rich in my own poverty, or in the awareness of the fact
that I am nobody, that I will never be a disciple of Jesus. Or I can
be so rich in the awareness that I am somebody that I will never be a
disciple. Am I willing to be destitute and poor even in my sense of
awareness of my destitution and poverty? If not, that is why I become
discouraged. Discouragement is disillusioned self-love, and self-love
may be love for my devotion to Jesus— not love for Jesus Himself.

By Oswald Chambers

