http://utmost.org/can-a-saint-falsely-accuse-god/

Can a Saint Falsely Accuse God?

All the promises of God in Him are Yes, and in Him Amen… —2
Corinthians 1:20

Jesus’ parable of the talents recorded in Matthew 25:14-30  was a
warning that it is possible for us to misjudge our capacities. This
parable has nothing to do with natural gifts and abilities, but
relates to the gift of the Holy Spirit as He was first given at
Pentecost. We must never measure our spiritual capacity on the basis
of our education or our intellect; our capacity in spiritual things is
measured on the basis of the promises of God. If we get less than God
wants us to have, we will falsely accuse Him as the servant falsely
accused his master when he said, “You expect more of me than you gave
me the power to do. You demand too much of me, and I cannot stand true
to you here where you have placed me.” When it is a question of God’s
Almighty Spirit, never say, “I can’t.” Never allow the limitation of
your own natural ability to enter into the matter. If we have received
the Holy Spirit, God expects the work of the Holy Spirit to be
exhibited in us.

The servant justified himself, while condemning his lord on every
point, as if to say, “Your demand on me is way out of proportion to
what you gave to me.” Have we been falsely accusing God by daring to
worry after He has said, “But seek first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you”? (Matthew
6:33). Worrying means exactly what this servant implied— “I know your
intent is to leave me unprotected and vulnerable.” A person who is
lazy in the natural realm is always critical, saying, “I haven’t had a
decent chance,” and someone who is lazy in the spiritual realm is
critical of God. Lazy people always strike out at others in an
independent way.

Never forget that our capacity and capability in spiritual matters is
measured by, and based on, the promises of God. Is God able to fulfill
His promises? Our answer depends on whether or not we have received
the Holy Spirit.

By Oswald Chambers

