https://utmost.org/obedience-to-the-heavenly-vision/

Obedience to the “Heavenly Vision”

I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision. —Acts 26:19

If we lose “the heavenly vision” God has given us, we alone are
responsible— not God. We lose the vision because of our own lack of
spiritual growth. If we do not apply our beliefs about God to the
issues of everyday life, the vision God has given us will never be
fulfilled. The only way to be obedient to “the heavenly vision” is to
give our utmost for His highest— our best for His glory. This can be
accomplished only when we make a determination to continually remember
God’s vision. But the acid test is obedience to the vision in the
details of our everyday life— sixty seconds out of every minute, and
sixty minutes out of every hour, not just during times of personal
prayer or public meetings.

“Though it tarries, wait for it…” (Habakkuk 2:3). We cannot bring the
vision to fulfillment through our own efforts, but must live under its
inspiration until it fulfills itself. We try to be so practical that
we forget the vision. At the very beginning we saw the vision but did
not wait for it. We rushed off to do our practical work, and once the
vision was fulfilled we could no longer even see it. Waiting for a
vision that “tarries” is the true test of our faithfulness to God. It
is at the risk of our own soul’s welfare that we get caught up in
practical busy-work, only to miss the fulfillment of the vision.

Watch for the storms of God. The only way God plants His saints is
through the whirlwind of His storms. Will you be proven to be an empty
pod with no seed inside? That will depend on whether or not you are
actually living in the light of the vision you have seen. Let God send
you out through His storm, and don’t go until He does. If you select
your own spot to be planted, you will prove yourself to be an
unproductive, empty pod. However, if you allow God to plant you, you
will “bear much fruit” (John 15:8).

It is essential that we live and “walk in the light” of God’s vision
for us (1 John 1:7).

By Oswald Chambers

