http://utmost.org/having-god%E2%80%99s-unreasonable-faith/

Having God’s “Unreasonable” Faith

Seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these
things shall be added to you. —Matthew 6:33

When we look at these words of Jesus, we immediately find them to be
the most revolutionary that human ears have ever heard. “…seek first
the kingdom of God….” Even the most spiritually-minded of us argue the
exact opposite, saying, “But I must live; I must make a certain amount
of money; I must be clothed; I must be fed.” The great concern of our
lives is not the kingdom of God but how we are going to take care of
ourselves to live. Jesus reversed the order by telling us to get the
right relationship with God first, maintaining it as the primary
concern of our lives, and never to place our concern on taking care of
the other things of life.

“…do not worry about your life…” (Matthew 6:25). Our Lord pointed out
that from His standpoint it is absolutely unreasonable for us to be
anxious, worrying about how we will live. Jesus did not say that the
person who takes no thought for anything in his life is blessed— no,
that person is a fool. But Jesus did teach that His disciple must make
his relationship with God the dominating focus of his life, and to be
cautiously carefree about everything else in comparison to that. In
essence, Jesus was saying, “Don’t make food and drink the controlling
factor of your life, but be focused absolutely on God.” Some people
are careless about what they eat and drink, and they suffer for it;
they are careless about what they wear, having no business looking the
way they do; they are careless with their earthly matters, and God
holds them responsible. Jesus is saying that the greatest concern of
life is to place our relationship with God first, and everything else
second.

It is one of the most difficult, yet critical, disciplines of the
Christian life to allow the Holy Spirit to bring us into absolute
harmony with the teaching of Jesus in these verses.

By Oswald Chambers

