http://utmost.org/the-bewildering-call-of-god/

The Bewildering Call of God

"…and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son
of Man will be accomplished."…But they understood none of these
things… —Luke 18:31, 34

God called Jesus Christ to what seemed absolute disaster. And Jesus
Christ called His disciples to see Him put to death, leading every one
of them to the place where their hearts were broken. His life was an
absolute failure from every standpoint except God’s. But what seemed
to be failure from man’s standpoint was a triumph from God’s
standpoint, because God’s purpose is never the same as man’s purpose.

This bewildering call of God comes into our lives as well. The call of
God can never be understood absolutely or explained externally; it is
a call that can only be perceived and understood internally by our
true inner-nature. The call of God is like the call of the sea— no one
hears it except the person who has the nature of the sea in him. What
God calls us to cannot be definitely stated, because His call is
simply to be His friend to accomplish His own purposes. Our real test
is in truly believing that God knows what He desires. The things that
happen do not happen by chance— they happen entirely by the decree of
God. God is sovereignly working out His own purposes.

If we are in fellowship and oneness with God and recognize that He is
taking us into His purposes, then we will no longer strive to find out
what His purposes are. As we grow in the Christian life, it becomes
simpler to us, because we are less inclined to say, “I wonder why God
allowed this or that?” And we begin to see that the compelling purpose
of God lies behind everything in life, and that God is divinely
shaping us into oneness with that purpose. A Christian is someone who
trusts in the knowledge and the wisdom of God, not in his own
abilities. If we have a purpose of our own, it destroys the simplicity
and the calm, relaxed pace which should be characteristic of the
children of God.

By Oswald Chambers

