http://utmost.org/the-go-of-renunciation/

The “Go” of Renunciation

…someone said to Him, "Lord, I will follow You wherever You go." —Luke
9:57

Our Lord’s attitude toward this man was one of severe discouragement,
“for He knew what was in man” (John 2:25). We would have said, “I
can’t imagine why He lost the opportunity of winning that man! Imagine
being so cold to him and turning him away so discouraged!” Never
apologize for your Lord. The words of the Lord hurt and offend until
there is nothing left to be hurt or offended. Jesus Christ had no
tenderness whatsoever toward anything that was ultimately going to
ruin a person in his service to God. Our Lord’s answers were not based
on some whim or impulsive thought, but on the knowledge of “what was
in man.” If the Spirit of God brings to your mind a word of the Lord
that hurts you, you can be sure that there is something in you that He
wants to hurt to the point of its death.

Luke 9:58. These words destroy the argument of serving Jesus Christ
because it is a pleasant thing to do. And the strictness of the
rejection that He demands of me allows for nothing to remain in my
life but my Lord, myself, and a sense of desperate hope. He says that
I must let everyone else come or go, and that I must be guided solely
by my relationship to Him. And He says, “…the Son of Man has nowhere
to lay His head.”

Luke 9:59. This man did not want to disappoint Jesus, nor did he want
to show a lack of respect for his father. We put our sense of loyalty
to our relatives ahead of our loyalty to Jesus Christ, forcing Him to
take last place. When your loyalties conflict, always obey Jesus
Christ whatever the cost.

Luke 9:61. The person who says, “Lord, I will follow You, but…,” is
the person who is intensely ready to go, but never goes. This man had
reservations about going. The exacting call of Jesus has no room for
good-byes; good-byes, as we often use them, are pagan, not Christian,
because they divert us from the call. Once the call of God comes to
you, start going and never stop.

By Oswald Chambers

