http://utmost.org/going-through-spiritual-confusion/

Going Through Spiritual Confusion

Jesus answered and said, "You do not know what you ask." —Matthew
20:22

There are times in your spiritual life when there is confusion, and
the way out of it is not simply to say that you should not be
confused. It is not a matter of right and wrong, but a matter of God
taking you through a way that you temporarily do not understand. And
it is only by going through the spiritual confusion that you will come
to the understanding of what God wants for you.

The Shrouding of His Friendship (see Luke 11:5-8). Jesus gave the
illustration here of a man who appears not to care for his friend. He
was saying, in effect, that is how the heavenly Father will appear to
you at times. You will think that He is an unkind friend, but
remember— He is not. The time will come when everything will be
explained. There seems to be a cloud on the friendship of the heart,
and often even love itself has to wait in pain and tears for the
blessing of fuller fellowship and oneness. When God appears to be
completely shrouded, will you hang on with confidence in Him?

The Shadow on His Fatherhood (see Luke 11:11-13). Jesus said that
there are times when your Father will appear as if He were an
unnatural father— as if He were callous and indifferent— but remember,
He is not. “Everyone who asks receives…” (Luke 11:10). If all you see
is a shadow on the face of the Father right now, hang on to the fact
that He will ultimately give you clear understanding and will fully
justify Himself in everything that He has allowed into your life.

The Strangeness of His Faithfulness (see Luke 18:1-8). “When the Son
of Man comes, will He really find faith on the earth?” (Luke 18:8).
Will He find the kind of faith that counts on Him in spite of the
confusion? Stand firm in faith, believing that what Jesus said is
true, although in the meantime you do not understand what God is
doing. He has bigger issues at stake than the particular things you
are asking of Him right now.

By Oswald Chambers

