http://utmost.org/the-unsurpassed-intimacy-of-tested-faith/

The Unsurpassed Intimacy of Tested Faith

Jesus said to her, "Did I not say to you that if you would believe you
would see the glory of God?" —John 11:40

Every time you venture out in your life of faith, you will find
something in your circumstances that, from a commonsense standpoint,
will flatly contradict your faith. But common sense is not faith, and
faith is not common sense. In fact, they are as different as the
natural life and the spiritual. Can you trust Jesus Christ where your
common sense cannot trust Him? Can you venture out with courage on the
words of Jesus Christ, while the realities of your commonsense life
continue to shout, “It’s all a lie”? When you are on the mountaintop,
it’s easy to say, “Oh yes, I believe God can do it,” but you have to
come down from the mountain to the demon-possessed valley and face the
realities that scoff at your Mount-of-Transfiguration belief (see Luke
9:28-42). Every time my theology becomes clear to my own mind, I
encounter something that contradicts it. As soon as I say, “I believe
‘God shall supply all [my] need,’ ” the testing of my faith begins
(Philippians 4:19). When my strength runs dry and my vision is
blinded, will I endure this trial of my faith victoriously or will I
turn back in defeat?

Faith must be tested, because it can only become your intimate
possession through conflict. What is challenging your faith right now?
The test will either prove your faith right, or it will kill it. Jesus
said, “Blessed is he who is not offended because of Me” Matthew 11:6).
The ultimate thing is confidence in Jesus. “We have become partakers
of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the
end…” (Hebrews 3:14). Believe steadfastly on Him and everything that
challenges you will strengthen your faith. There is continual testing
in the life of faith up to the point of our physical death, which is
the last great test. Faith is absolute trust in God— trust that could
never imagine that He would forsake us (see Hebrews 13:5-6).

By Oswald Chambers

