https://utmost.org/do-you-now-believe/

“Do You Now Believe?”

"By this we believe…." Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?"
—John 16:30-31

“Now we believe….” But Jesus asks, “Do you…? Indeed the hour is
coming…that you…will leave Me alone” (John 16:31-32). Many Christian
workers have left Jesus Christ alone and yet tried to serve Him out of
a sense of duty, or because they sense a need as a result of their own
discernment. The reason for this is actually the absence of the
resurrection life of Jesus. Our soul has gotten out of intimate
contact with God by leaning on our own religious understanding
(see Proverbs 3:5-6). This is not deliberate sin and there is no
punishment attached to it. But once a person realizes how he has
hindered his understanding of Jesus Christ, and caused uncertainties,
sorrows, and difficulties for himself, it is with shame and remorse
that he has to return.

We need to rely on the resurrection life of Jesus on a much deeper
level than we do now. We should get in the habit of continually
seeking His counsel on everything, instead of making our own
commonsense decisions and then asking Him to bless them. He cannot
bless them; it is not in His realm to do so, and those decisions are
severed from reality. If we do something simply out of a sense of
duty, we are trying to live up to a standard that competes with Jesus
Christ. We become a prideful, arrogant person, thinking we know what
to do in every situation. We have put our sense of duty on the throne
of our life, instead of enthroning the resurrection life of Jesus. We
are not told to “walk in the light” of our conscience or in the light
of a sense of duty, but to “walk in the light as He is in the light…”
(1 John 1:7). When we do something out of a sense of duty, it is easy
to explain the reasons for our actions to others. But when we do
something out of obedience to the Lord, there can be no other
explanation— just obedience. That is why a saint can be so easily
ridiculed and misunderstood.

By Oswald Chambers

