http://utmost.org/our-misgivings-about-jesus/

Our Misgivings About Jesus

The woman said to Him, "Sir, You have nothing to draw [water] with,
and the well is deep." —John 4:11

Have you ever said to yourself, “I am impressed with the wonderful
truths of God’s Word, but He can’t really expect me to live up to that
and work all those details into my life!” When it comes to confronting
Jesus Christ on the basis of His qualities and abilities, our
attitudes reflect religious superiority. We think His ideals are lofty
and they impress us, but we believe He is not in touch with reality—
that what He says cannot actually be done. Each of us thinks this
about Jesus in one area of our life or another. These doubts or
misgivings about Jesus begin as we consider questions that divert our
focus away from God. While we talk of our dealings with Him, others
ask us, “Where are you going to get enough money to live? How will you
live and who will take care of you?” Or our misgivings begin within
ourselves when we tell Jesus that our circumstances are just a little
too difficult for Him. We say, “It’s easy to say, ‘Trust in the Lord,’
but a person has to live; and besides, Jesus has nothing with which to
draw water— no means to be able to give us these things.” And beware
of exhibiting religious deceit by saying, “Oh, I have no misgivings
about Jesus, only misgivings about myself.” If we are honest, we will
admit that we never have misgivings or doubts about ourselves, because
we know exactly what we are capable or incapable of doing. But we do
have misgivings about Jesus. And our pride is hurt even at the thought
that He can do what we can’t.

My misgivings arise from the fact that I search within to find how He
will do what He says. My doubts spring from the depths of my own
inferiority. If I detect these misgivings in myself, I should bring
them into the light and confess them openly— “Lord, I have had
misgivings about You. I have not believed in Your abilities, but only
my own. And I have not believed in Your almighty power apart from my
finite understanding of it.”

By Oswald Chambers

