http://utmost.org/dependent-on-god%E2%80%99s-presence/

Dependent on God’s Presence

Those who wait on the Lord…shall walk and not faint. —Isaiah 40:31

There is no thrill for us in walking, yet it is the test for all of
our steady and enduring qualities. To “walk and not faint” is the
highest stretch possible as a measure of strength. The word walk is
used in the Bible to express the character of a person— “…John…looking
at Jesus as He walked…said, ‘Behold the Lamb of God!’ ” (John
1:35-36). There is nothing abstract or obscure in the Bible;
everything is vivid and real. God does not say, “Be spiritual,” but He
says, “Walk before Me…” (Genesis 17:1).

When we are in an unhealthy condition either physically or
emotionally, we always look for thrills in life. In our physical life
this leads to our efforts to counterfeit the work of the Holy Spirit;
in our emotional life it leads to obsessions and to the destruction of
our morality; and in our spiritual life, if we insist on pursuing only
thrills, on mounting up “with wings like eagles” (Isaiah 40:31), it
will result in the destruction of our spirituality.

Having the reality of God’s presence is not dependent on our being in
a particular circumstance or place, but is only dependent on our
determination to keep the Lord before us continually. Our problems
arise when we refuse to place our trust in the reality of His
presence. The experience the psalmist speaks of— “We will not fear,
even though…” (Psalm 46:2)— will be ours once we are grounded on the
truth of the reality of God’s presence, not just a simple awareness of
it, but an understanding of the reality of it. Then we will exclaim,
“He has been here all the time!” At critical moments in our lives it
is necessary to ask God for guidance, but it should be unnecessary to
be constantly saying, “Oh, Lord, direct me in this, and in that.” Of
course He will, and in fact, He is doing it already! If our everyday
decisions are not according to His will, He will press through them,
bringing restraint to our spirit. Then we must be quiet and wait for
the direction of His presence.

By Oswald Chambers

