https://utmost.org/the-way-to-permanent-faith/

The Way to Permanent Faith

Indeed the hour is coming…that you will be scattered… —John 16:32

Jesus was not rebuking the disciples in this passage. Their faith was
real, but it was disordered and unfocused, and was not at work in the
important realities of life. The disciples were scattered to their own
concerns and they had interests apart from Jesus Christ. After we have
the perfect relationship with God, through the sanctifying work of the
Holy Spirit, our faith must be exercised in the realities of everyday
life. We will be scattered, not into service but into the emptiness of
our lives where we will see ruin and barrenness, to know what internal
death to God’s blessings means. Are we prepared for this? It is
certainly not of our own choosing, but God engineers our circumstances
to take us there. Until we have been through that experience, our
faith is sustained only by feelings and by blessings. But once we get
there, no matter where God may place us or what inner emptiness we
experience, we can praise God that all is well. That is what is meant
by faith being exercised in the realities of life.

“…you…will leave Me alone.” Have we been scattered and have we left
Jesus alone by not seeing His providential care for us? Do we not see
God at work in our circumstances? Dark times are allowed and come to
us through the sovereignty of God. Are we prepared to let God do what
He wants with us? Are we prepared to be separated from the outward,
evident blessings of God? Until Jesus Christ is truly our Lord, we
each have goals of our own which we serve. Our faith is real, but it
is not yet permanent. And God is never in a hurry. If we are willing
to wait, we will see God pointing out that we have been interested
only in His blessings, instead of in God Himself. The sense of God’s
blessings is fundamental.

“…be of good cheer, I have overcome the world” (John 16:33).
Unyielding spiritual fortitude is what we need.

By Oswald Chambers

