http://utmost.org/are-you-ever-troubled/

Are You Ever Troubled?

Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you… —John 14:27

There are times in our lives when our peace is based simply on our own
ignorance. But when we are awakened to the realities of life, true
inner peace is impossible unless it is received from Jesus. When our
Lord speaks peace, He creates peace, because the words that He speaks
are always “spirit, and they are life” (John 6:63). Have I ever
received what Jesus speaks? “…My peace I give to you…”— a peace that
comes from looking into His face and fully understanding and receiving
His quiet contentment.

Are you severely troubled right now? Are you afraid and confused by
the waves and the turbulence God sovereignly allows to enter your
life? Have you left no stone of your faith unturned, yet still not
found any well of peace, joy, or comfort? Does your life seem
completely barren to you? Then look up and receive the quiet
contentment of the Lord Jesus. Reflecting His peace is proof that you
are right with God, because you are exhibiting the freedom to turn
your mind to Him. If you are not right with God, you can never turn
your mind anywhere but on yourself. Allowing anything to hide the face
of Jesus Christ from you either causes you to become troubled or gives
you a false sense of security.

With regard to the problem that is pressing in on you right now, are
you “looking unto Jesus” (Hebrews 12:2) and receiving peace from Him?
If so, He will be a gracious blessing of peace exhibited in and
through you. But if you only try to worry your way out of the problem,
you destroy His effectiveness in you, and you deserve whatever you
get. We become troubled because we have not been taking Him into
account. When a person confers with Jesus Christ, the confusion stops,
because there is no confusion in Him. Lay everything out before Him,
and when you are faced with difficulty, bereavement, and sorrow,
listen to Him say, “Let not your heart be troubled…” (John 14:27).

By Oswald Chambers

