http://utmost.org/look-again-and-consecrate/

Look Again and Consecrate

If God so clothes the grass of the field…, will He not much more
clothe you…? —Matthew 6:30

A simple statement of Jesus is always a puzzle to us because we will
not be simple. How can we maintain the simplicity of Jesus so that we
may understand Him? By receiving His Spirit, recognizing and relying
on Him, and obeying Him as He brings us the truth of His Word, life
will become amazingly simple. Jesus asks us to consider that “if God
so clothes the grass of the field…” how “much more” will He clothe
you, if you keep your relationship right with Him? Every time we lose
ground in our fellowship with God, it is because we have
disrespectfully thought that we knew better than Jesus Christ. We have
allowed “the cares of this world” to enter in (Matthew 13:22), while
forgetting the “much more” of our heavenly Father.

“Look at the birds of the air…” (Matthew 6:26). Their function is to
obey the instincts God placed within them, and God watches over them.
Jesus said that if you have the right relationship with Him and will
obey His Spirit within you, then God will care for your “feathers”
too.

“Consider the lilies of the field…” (Matthew 6:28). They grow where
they are planted. Many of us refuse to grow where God plants us.
Therefore, we don’t take root anywhere. Jesus said if we would obey
the life of God within us, He would look after all other things. Did
Jesus Christ lie to us? Are we experiencing the “much more” He
promised? If we are not, it is because we are not obeying the life God
has given us and have cluttered our minds with confusing thoughts and
worries. How much time have we wasted asking God senseless questions
while we should be absolutely free to concentrate on our service to
Him? Consecration is the act of continually separating myself from
everything except that which God has appointed me to do. It is not a
one-time experience but an ongoing process. Am I continually
separating myself and looking to God every day of my life?

By Oswald Chambers

